#### 27.3.6.3 SqlResult Object

An `SqlResult` is produced whenever a query is
executed using
[`sqlExecute.execute()`](srjsapi-sqlexecute.html#srjsapi-sqlexecute-execute),
[`PreparedStatement.execute()`](srjsapi-preparedstatement.html#srjsapi-preparedstatement-execute),
or [`Session.runSql()`](srjsapi-session.html#srjsapi-session-runsql).

Note

No `SqlResult` is produced if
`passResultsToClient` is used.

Methods supported by `SqlResult` are listed
here:

* `close()`: Closes the result set. The value
  returned is undefined.

* `fetchAll()`: Retrieves a list of all rows
  in the result set.

* `fetchOne()`: Retrieves the next
  [`Row`](srjsapi-row.html "27.3.6.7 Row Object") in the result set.

* `getAffectedItemsCount()`: Retrieves the
  number of rows affected by the most recent operation.

* `getAutoIncrementValue()`: Retrieves the
  autogenerated ID used for the most recent insert operation.

  Calling this method is equivalent to executing
  [`LAST_INSERT_ID()`](information-functions.html#function_last-insert-id) in the
  [**mysql**](mysql.html "6.5.1 mysql — The MySQL Command-Line Client") client.

* `getColumnCount()`: Gets the number of
  columns in the result set.

* `getColumnNames()`: Retrieves the names of
  the columns in the current result set.

* `getColumns()`: Retrieves the columns
  metadata in the current result set.

* `getExecutionTime()`: Retrieves the time
  spent executing this query, to the nearest whole second.

* `getWarnings()`: Retrieves any warnings (as
  a list of [`Warning`](srjsapi-warning.html "27.3.6.8 Warning Object") objects)
  raised by the operation most recently executed.

* `getWarningsCount()`: Retrieves the number
  of warnings raised by the operation last executed.

* `hasData()`: Returns
  `true` if the most recently executed
  statement yielded a result set, `false`
  otherwise.

* `nextResult()`: Moves to the next result
  set if available. Returns `true` if the
  result set is available and contains data.