## 25.6 Management of NDB Cluster

[25.6.1 Commands in the NDB Cluster Management Client](mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.html)

[25.6.2 NDB Cluster Log Messages](mysql-cluster-logs-ndb-messages.html)

[25.6.3 Event Reports Generated in NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-event-reports.html)

[25.6.4 Summary of NDB Cluster Start Phases](mysql-cluster-start-phases.html)

[25.6.5 Performing a Rolling Restart of an NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-rolling-restart.html)

[25.6.6 NDB Cluster Single User Mode](mysql-cluster-single-user-mode.html)

[25.6.7 Adding NDB Cluster Data Nodes Online](mysql-cluster-online-add-node.html)

[25.6.8 Online Backup of NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-backup.html)

[25.6.9 Importing Data Into MySQL Cluster](mysql-cluster-importing-data.html)

[25.6.10 MySQL Server Usage for NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-mysqld.html)

[25.6.11 NDB Cluster Disk Data Tables](mysql-cluster-disk-data.html)

[25.6.12 Online Operations with ALTER TABLE in NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-online-operations.html)

[25.6.13 Privilege Synchronization and NDB\_STORED\_USER](mysql-cluster-privilege-synchronization.html)

[25.6.14 NDB API Statistics Counters and Variables](mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics.html)

[25.6.15 ndbinfo: The NDB Cluster Information Database](mysql-cluster-ndbinfo.html)

[25.6.16 INFORMATION\_SCHEMA Tables for NDB Cluster](mysql-cluster-information-schema-tables.html)

[25.6.17 NDB Cluster and the Performance Schema](mysql-cluster-ps-tables.html)

[25.6.18 Quick Reference: NDB Cluster SQL Statements](mysql-cluster-sql-statements.html)

[25.6.19 NDB Cluster Security](mysql-cluster-security.html)

Managing an NDB Cluster involves a number of tasks, the first of
which is to configure and start NDB Cluster. This is covered in
[Section 25.4, “Configuration of NDB Cluster”](mysql-cluster-configuration.html "25.4 Configuration of NDB Cluster"), and
[Section 25.5, “NDB Cluster Programs”](mysql-cluster-programs.html "25.5 NDB Cluster Programs").

The next few sections cover the management of a running NDB Cluster.

For general information about security issues relating to management
and deployment of an NDB Cluster, see
[Section 25.6.19, “NDB Cluster Security”](mysql-cluster-security.html "25.6.19 NDB Cluster Security"). For information about
encrypted file systems and `NDB`, see
[Section 25.6.19.4, “File System Encryption for NDB Cluster”](mysql-cluster-tde.html "25.6.19.4 File System Encryption for NDB Cluster").
[Section 25.6.19.5, “TLS Link Encryption for NDB Cluster”](mysql-cluster-tls.html "25.6.19.5 TLS Link Encryption for NDB Cluster"), provides information about
support for encrypted connections between nodes. NDB Cluster also
supports encrypted backups which can be read by many
`NDB` command-line programs including
[**ndb\_restore**](mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.html "25.5.23 ndb_restore — Restore an NDB Cluster Backup"), [**ndbxfrm**](mysql-cluster-programs-ndbxfrm.html "25.5.32 ndbxfrm — Compress, Decompress, Encrypt, and Decrypt Files Created by NDB Cluster"),
[**ndb\_print\_backup\_file**](mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-backup-file.html "25.5.17 ndb_print_backup_file — Print NDB Backup File Contents"), and
[**ndb\_mgm**](mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.html "25.5.5 ndb_mgm — The NDB Cluster Management Client"). See
[Section 25.6.8.2, “Using The NDB Cluster Management Client to Create a Backup”](mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client.html "25.6.8.2 Using The NDB Cluster Management Client to Create a Backup"), for
more information.

There are essentially two methods of actively managing a running NDB
Cluster. The first of these is through the use of commands entered
into the management client whereby cluster status can be checked,
log levels changed, backups started and stopped, and nodes stopped
and started. The second method involves studying the contents of the
cluster log
`ndb_node_id_cluster.log`;
this is usually found in the management server's
[`DataDir`](mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.html#ndbparam-mgmd-datadir) directory, but this
location can be overridden using the
[`LogDestination`](mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.html#ndbparam-mgmd-logdestination) option.
(Recall that *`node_id`* represents the
unique identifier of the node whose activity is being logged.) The
cluster log contains event reports generated by
[**ndbd**](mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.html "25.5.1 ndbd — The NDB Cluster Data Node Daemon"). It is also possible to send cluster log
entries to a Unix system log.

Some aspects of the cluster's operation can be also be
monitored from an SQL node using the
[`SHOW ENGINE NDB
STATUS`](show-engine.html "15.7.7.17 SHOW ENGINE Statement") statement.

More detailed information about NDB Cluster operations is available
in real time through an SQL interface using the
[`ndbinfo`](mysql-cluster-ndbinfo.html "25.6.15 ndbinfo: The NDB Cluster Information Database") database. For more
information, see [Section 25.6.15, “ndbinfo: The NDB Cluster Information Database”](mysql-cluster-ndbinfo.html "25.6.15 ndbinfo: The NDB Cluster Information Database").

NDB statistics counters provide improved monitoring using the
[**mysql**](mysql.html "6.5.1 mysql — The MySQL Command-Line Client") client. These counters, implemented in the
NDB kernel, relate to operations performed by or affecting
[`Ndb`](/doc/ndbapi/en/ndb-ndb.html) objects, such as starting,
closing, and aborting transactions; primary key and unique key
operations; table, range, and pruned scans; blocked threads waiting
for various operations to complete; and data and events sent and
received by NDB Cluster. The counters are incremented by the NDB
kernel whenever NDB API calls are made or data is sent to or
received by the data nodes.

[**mysqld**](mysqld.html "6.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") exposes the NDB API statistics counters as
system status variables, which can be identified from the prefix
common to all of their names (`Ndb_api_`). The
values of these variables can be read in the
[**mysql**](mysql.html "6.5.1 mysql — The MySQL Command-Line Client") client from the output of a
[`SHOW STATUS`](show-status.html "15.7.7.38 SHOW STATUS Statement") statement, or by querying
either the Performance Schema
[`session_status`](performance-schema-status-variable-tables.html "29.12.15 Performance Schema Status Variable Tables") or
[`global_status`](performance-schema-status-variable-tables.html "29.12.15 Performance Schema Status Variable Tables") table. By comparing the
values of the status variables before and after the execution of an
SQL statement that acts on [`NDB`](mysql-cluster.html "Chapter 25 MySQL NDB Cluster 9.5") tables,
you can observe the actions taken on the NDB API level that
correspond to this statement, which can be beneficial for monitoring
and performance tuning of NDB Cluster.

MySQL Cluster Manager provides an advanced command-line interface that simplifies
many otherwise complex NDB Cluster management tasks, such as
starting, stopping, or restarting an NDB Cluster with a large number
of nodes. The MySQL Cluster Manager client also supports commands for getting and
setting the values of most node configuration parameters as well as
[**mysqld**](mysqld.html "6.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") server options and variables relating to
NDB Cluster. See [MySQL Cluster Manager 9.5.0 User Manual](/doc/mysql-cluster-manager/9.5/en/), for more information.