## 8.6 MySQL Enterprise Encryption

Note

MySQL Enterprise Encryption is an extension included in MySQL Enterprise Edition, a commercial product. To learn more about commercial products, <https://www.mysql.com/products/>.

MySQL Enterprise Edition includes a set of encryption functions that expose OpenSSL capabilities at the SQL level. The functions enable Enterprise applications to perform the following operations:

* Implement added data protection using public-key asymmetric cryptography

* Create public and private keys and digital signatures
* Perform asymmetric encryption and decryption
* Use cryptographic hashing for digital signing and data verification and validation

These functions are provided by the MySQL `component_enterprise_encryption` component.


### 8.6.1 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Installation and Upgrading

The functions are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, and installing the component installs all of the functions.

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions are provided by the MySQL `component_enterprise_encryption` component. For upgrade information, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption.

If you are upgrading from a release prior to MySQL 8.0.30: Before installing the component, unload any legacy functions using the [`DROP FUNCTION`](drop-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.2 DROP FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statement:

```
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_decrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_derive;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_encrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_sign;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_verify;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_priv_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_pub_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_dh_parameters;
DROP FUNCTION create_digest;
```

The function names must be specified in lowercase. The statements require the `DROP` privilege for the `mysql` database.

To install the component, issue this [`INSTALL COMPONENT`](install-component.html "15.7.4.3 INSTALL COMPONENT Statement") statement:

```
INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_enterprise_encryption";
```

`INSTALL COMPONENT` requires the `INSERT` privilege for the `mysql.component` system table because it adds a row to that table to register the component. To verify that the component has been installed, issue the statement shown here:

```
SELECT * FROM mysql.component;
```

Components listed in `mysql.component` are loaded by the loader service during the startup sequence.

If you need to uninstall the component, issue an `UNINSTALL COMPONENT` statement:

```
UNINSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_enterprise_encryption";
```

Uninstalling the component uninstalls all of the functions. For more details, see Section 7.5.1, “Installing and Uninstalling Components”.

Note

Installing the component installs all of its functions, so you do not need to create them using [`CREATE FUNCTION`](create-function.html "15.1.16 CREATE FUNCTION Statement") statements as in older releases of MySQL.

When you have installed the component, if you want the component functions to support decryption and verification for content produced by legacy functions, set the `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` system variable to `ON`. Also, if you want to change the maximum length allowed for the RSA keys generated by the component functions, use the `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable to set an appropriate maximum. For configuration information, see Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.


### 8.6.2 Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption

MySQL Enterprise Encryption lets you limit keys to a length that provides adequate security for your requirements while balancing this with resource usage. You can also configure the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component to support decryption and verification for content produced by the old `openssl_udf` shared library functions.

#### Decryption Support By Component Functions For Legacy Functions

By default, the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component do not decrypt encrypted text, or verify signatures, that were produced by the legacy functions provided in earlier releases by the `openssl_udf` shared library. The component functions assume that encrypted text uses the RSAES-OAEP padding scheme, and signatures use the RSASSA-PSS signature scheme. However, encrypted text produced by the legacy functions uses the RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5 padding scheme, and signatures produced by the legacy functions use the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature scheme.

If you want the component functions to support content produced by the legacy functions, set the `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` system variable to `ON`. This variable is available when the component is installed. When you set it to `ON`, the component functions first attempt to decrypt or verify content assuming it has their normal schemes. If that does not work, they also attempt to decrypt or verify the content assuming it has the schemes used by the old functions. This behavior is not the default because it increases the time taken to process content that cannot be decrypted or verified at all. If you are not handling content produced by the old functions, let the system variable default to `OFF`.

#### Key Length Limits

The amount of CPU resources required by MySQL Enterprise Encryption's key generation functions increases as the key length increases. For some installations, this might result in unacceptable CPU usage if applications frequently generate excessively long keys.

The functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component have a minimum key length of 2048 bits for RSA keys, which is in line with current best practice for minimum key lengths. The `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable specifies the maximum key size.


### 8.6.3 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Usage and Examples

To use MySQL Enterprise Encryption in applications, invoke the functions that are appropriate for the operations you wish to perform. This section demonstrates how to carry out some representative tasks.

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`. For information about these functions, see Section 8.6.4, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Function Reference”.

The following general considerations apply when choosing key lengths and encryption algorithms:

* The strength of encryption for private and public keys increases with the key size, but the time for key generation increases as well.

* Component functions support RSA keys only.
* Asymmetric encryption functions consume more resources compared to symmetric functions. They are good for encrypting small amounts of data and creating and verifying signatures. For encrypting large amounts of data, symmetric encryption functions are faster. MySQL Server provides the `AES_ENCRYPT()` and `AES_DECRYPT()` functions for symmetric encryption.

Key string values can be created at runtime and stored into a variable or table using `SET`, `SELECT`, or `INSERT`, as shown here:

```
SET @priv1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
SELECT create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048) INTO @priv2;
INSERT INTO t (key_col) VALUES(create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 1024));
```

Key string values stored in files can be read using the `LOAD_FILE()` function by users who have the `FILE` privilege. Digest and signature strings can be handled similarly.

* Create a private/public key pair
* Use the public key to encrypt data and the private key to decrypt it
* Generate a digest from a string
* Use the digest with a key pair

#### Create a private/public key pair

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
-- Key length in bits; make larger for stronger keys
SET @key_len = 2048;

-- Create private key
SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, @key_len);
-- Derive corresponding public key from private key, using same algorithm
SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv);
```

You can use the key pair to encrypt and decrypt data or to sign and verify data.

#### Use the public key to encrypt data and the private key to decrypt it

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions. In both cases, the members of the key pair must be RSA keys:

```
SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt(@algo, 'My secret text', @pub);
SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt(@algo, @ciphertext, @priv);
```

#### Generate a digest from a string

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Digest type
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate digest string
SET @dig = create_digest(@dig_type, 'My text to digest');
```

#### Use the digest with a key pair

The key pair can be used to sign data, then verify that the signature matches the digest. This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm; keys must
-- have been created using same algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
–- Digest algorithm to sign the data
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @dig, @priv, @dig_type);
-- Verify signature against digest
SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @dig, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
```

For the legacy functions, signatures require a digest. For the component functions, signatures do not require a digest, and can use any data string. The digest type in these functions refers to the algorithm that is used to sign the data, not the algorithm that was used to create the original input for the signature. This example is for the component functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm; keys must
-- have been created using same algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
–- Arbitrary text string for signature
SET @text = repeat('j', 256);
–- Digest algorithm to sign the data
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @text, @priv, @dig_type);
-- Verify signature against digest
SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @text, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
```


### 8.6.4 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Function Reference

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions are provided by the MySQL `component_enterprise_encryption` component. See Section 8.6.5, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Component Function Descriptions”.

**Table 8.49 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Functions**

<table frame="box" rules="all" summary="A reference that lists MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions."><col style="width: 28%"/><col style="width: 71%"/><thead><tr><th>Name</th> <th>Description</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>asymmetric_decrypt()</code></td> <td> Decrypt ciphertext using private or public key </td> </tr><tr><td><code>asymmetric_derive()</code></td> <td> Derive symmetric key from asymmetric keys </td> </tr><tr><td><code>asymmetric_encrypt()</code></td> <td> Encrypt cleartext using private or public key </td> </tr><tr><td><code>asymmetric_sign()</code></td> <td> Generate signature from digest </td> </tr><tr><td><code>asymmetric_verify()</code></td> <td> Verify that signature matches digest </td> </tr><tr><td><code>create_asymmetric_priv_key()</code></td> <td> Create private key </td> </tr><tr><td><code>create_asymmetric_pub_key()</code></td> <td> Create public key </td> </tr><tr><td><code>create_dh_parameters()</code></td> <td> Generate shared DH secret </td> </tr><tr><td><code>create_digest()</code></td> <td> Generate digest from string </td> </tr></tbody></table>


### 8.6.5 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Component Function Descriptions

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions have these general characteristics:

* For arguments of the wrong type or an incorrect number of arguments, each function returns an error.

* If the arguments are not suitable to permit a function to perform the requested operation, it returns `NULL` or 0 as appropriate. This occurs, for example, if a function does not support a specified algorithm, a key length is too short or long, or a string expected to be a key string in PEM format is not a valid key.

* The underlying SSL library takes care of randomness initialization.

The component functions only support the RSA encryption algorithm.

For additional examples and discussion, see Section 8.6.3, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Usage and Examples”.

* [`asymmetric_decrypt(algorithm, data_str, priv_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-decrypt)

  Decrypts an encrypted string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting plaintext as a binary string. If decryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  By default, the `component_enterprise_encryption` function assumes that encrypted text uses the RSAES-OAEP padding scheme. The function supports decryption for content encrypted by the old `openssl_udf` shared library functions if the system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` is set to `ON` (the default is `OFF`). When this is `ON`, the function also supports the RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5 padding scheme, as used by the old `openssl_udf` shared library functions. When the variable is set to `OFF`, content encrypted by the legacy functions cannot be decrypted, and the function returns null output for such content.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`data_str`* is the encrypted string to decrypt, which was encrypted with `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA private key. For successful decryption, the key string must correspond to the public key string used with `asymmetric_encrypt()` to produce the encrypted string. The `asymmetric_encrypt()` component function only supports encryption using a public key, so decryption takes place with the corresponding private key.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

* [`asymmetric_encrypt(algorithm, data_str, pub_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-encrypt)

  Encrypts a string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting ciphertext as a binary string. If encryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`data_str`* is the string to encrypt. The length of this string cannot be greater than the key string length in bytes, minus 42 (to account for the padding).

  *`pub_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA public key. The `asymmetric_encrypt()` component function only supports encryption using a public key.

  To recover the original unencrypted string, pass the encrypted string to `asymmetric_decrypt()`, along with the other part of the key pair used for encryption, as in the following example:

  ```
  -- Generate private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @priv);

  -- Encrypt using public key, decrypt using private key
  SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'The quick brown fox', @pub);
  SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @priv);
  ```

  Suppose that:

  ```
  SET @s = a string to be encrypted
  SET @priv = a valid private RSA key string in PEM format
  SET @pub = the corresponding public RSA key string in PEM format
  ```

  Then these identity relationships hold:

  ```
  asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', @s, @pub), @priv) = @s
  ```

* [`asymmetric_sign(algorithm, text, priv_key_str, digest_type)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-sign)

  Signs a digest string or data string using a private key, and returns the signature as a binary string. If signing fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`text`* is a data string or digest string. The function accepts digests but does not require them, as it is also capable of handling data strings of an arbitrary length. A digest string can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is the private key string to use for signing the digest string. It must be a valid PEM encoded RSA private key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm to be used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_verify()`.

* [`asymmetric_verify(algorithm, text, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-verify)

  Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string, and returns 1 or 0 to indicate whether verification succeeded or failed. If verification fails, the result is `NULL`.

  By default, the `component_enterprise_encryption` function assumes that signatures use the RSASSA-PSS signature scheme. The function supports verification for signatures produced by the old `openssl_udf` shared library functions if the system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` is set to `ON` (the default is `OFF`). When this is `ON`, the function also supports the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature scheme, as used by the old `openssl_udf` shared library functions; when it is `OFF`, signatures produced by the legacy functions cannot be verified, and the function returns null output for such content.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`text`* is a data string or digest string. The component function accepts digests but does not require them, as it is also capable of handling data strings of an arbitrary length. A digest string can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`sig_str`* is the signature string to be verified. A signature string can be generated by calling `asymmetric_sign()`.

  *`pub_key_str`* is the public key string of the signer. It corresponds to the private key passed to `asymmetric_sign()` to generate the signature string. It must be a valid PEM encoded RSA public key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm that was used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  ```
  -- Set the encryption algorithm and digest type
  SET @algo = 'RSA';
  SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

  -- Create private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv);

  -- Generate digest from string
  SET @dig = create_digest(@dig_type, 'The quick brown fox');

  -- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
  SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @dig, @priv, @dig_type);
  SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @dig, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
  ```

* [`create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, key_length)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-asymmetric-priv-key)

  Creates a private key using the given algorithm and key length, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #8 format. If key generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`key_length`* is the key length in bits. If you exceed the maximum allowed key length or specify less than the minimum, key generation fails and the result is null output. The minimum allowed key length in bits is 2048. The maximum allowed key length is the value of the `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable, which defaults to 4096. It has a maximum setting of 16384, which is the maximum key length allowed for the RSA algorithm. See Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

  Note

  Generating longer keys can consume significant CPU resources. Limiting the key length using the `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable lets you provide adequate security for your requirements while balancing this with resource usage.

  This example creates a 2048-bit RSA private key, then derives a public key from the private key:

  ```
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @priv);
  ```

* [`create_asymmetric_pub_key(algorithm, priv_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-asymmetric-pub-key)

  Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #8 format. If key derivation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA private key.

  For a usage example, see the description of `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`.

* [`create_digest(digest_type, str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-digest)

  Creates a digest from the given string using the given digest type, and returns the digest as a binary string. If digest generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions.

  The resulting digest string is suitable for use with `asymmetric_sign()` and `asymmetric_verify()`. The component versions of these functions accept digests but do not require them, as they are capable of handling data of an arbitrary length.

  *`digest_type`* is the digest algorithm to be used to generate the digest string. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  *`str`* is the non-null data string for which the digest is to be generated.

  ```
  SET @dig = create_digest('SHA512', 'The quick brown fox');
  ```
