#### 5.8.1.6 Using Server Logs to Find Causes of Errors in mysqld

Note that before starting [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") with the general query log enabled, you should check all your tables with [**myisamchk**](myisamchk.html "4.6.3 myisamchk — MyISAM Table-Maintenance Utility"). See [Chapter 5, *MySQL Server Administration*](server-administration.html "Chapter 5 MySQL Server Administration").

If [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") dies or hangs, you should start [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") with the general query log enabled. See [Section 5.4.3, “The General Query Log”](query-log.html "5.4.3 The General Query Log"). When [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") dies again, you can examine the end of the log file for the query that killed [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server").

If you use the default general query log file, the log is stored in the database directory as `host_name.log` In most cases it is the last query in the log file that killed [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server"), but if possible you should verify this by restarting [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") and executing the found query from the [**mysql**](mysql.html "4.5.1 mysql — The MySQL Command-Line Client") command-line tools. If this works, you should also test all complicated queries that did not complete.

You can also try the command [`EXPLAIN`](explain.html "13.8.2 EXPLAIN Statement") on all [`SELECT`](select.html "13.2.9 SELECT Statement") statements that takes a long time to ensure that [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") is using indexes properly. See [Section 13.8.2, “EXPLAIN Statement”](explain.html "13.8.2 EXPLAIN Statement").

You can find the queries that take a long time to execute by starting [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") with the slow query log enabled. See [Section 5.4.5, “The Slow Query Log”](slow-query-log.html "5.4.5 The Slow Query Log").

If you find the text `mysqld restarted` in the error log (normally a file named `host_name.err`) you probably have found a query that causes [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") to fail. If this happens, you should check all your tables with [**myisamchk**](myisamchk.html "4.6.3 myisamchk — MyISAM Table-Maintenance Utility") (see [Chapter 5, *MySQL Server Administration*](server-administration.html "Chapter 5 MySQL Server Administration")), and test the queries in the MySQL log files to see whether one fails. If you find such a query, try first upgrading to the newest MySQL version. If this does not help, report a bug, see [Section 1.5, “How to Report Bugs or Problems”](bug-reports.html "1.5 How to Report Bugs or Problems").

If you have started [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") with the [`myisam_recover_options`](server-system-variables.html#sysvar_myisam_recover_options) system variable set, MySQL automatically checks and tries to repair `MyISAM` tables if they are marked as 'not closed properly' or 'crashed'. If this happens, MySQL writes an entry in the `hostname.err` file `'Warning: Checking table ...'` which is followed by `Warning: Repairing table` if the table needs to be repaired. If you get a lot of these errors, without [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") having died unexpectedly just before, then something is wrong and needs to be investigated further. See [Section 5.1.6, “Server Command Options”](server-options.html "5.1.6 Server Command Options").

When the server detects `MyISAM` table corruption, it writes additional information to the error log, such as the name and line number of the source file, and the list of threads accessing the table. Example: `Got an error from thread_id=1, mi_dynrec.c:368`. This is useful information to include in bug reports.

It is not a good sign if [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") did die unexpectedly, but in this case, you should not investigate the `Checking table...` messages, but instead try to find out why [**mysqld**](mysqld.html "4.3.1 mysqld — The MySQL Server") died.
