#### 19.5.1.20 Replication and LOAD DATA

`LOAD DATA` is considered unsafe for statement-based logging (see Section 19.2.1.3, “Determination of Safe and Unsafe Statements in Binary Logging”). When `binlog_format=MIXED` is set, the statement is logged in row-based format. When `binlog_format=STATEMENT` is set, note that `LOAD DATA` does not generate a warning, unlike other unsafe statements.

If you use `LOAD DATA` with `binlog_format=STATEMENT`, each replica on which the changes are to be applied creates a temporary file containing the data. The replica then uses a `LOAD DATA` statement to apply the changes. This temporary file is not encrypted, even if binary log encryption is active on the source, If encryption is required, use row-based or mixed binary logging format instead, for which replicas do not create the temporary file.

If a `PRIVILEGE_CHECKS_USER` account has been used to help secure the replication channel (see Section 19.3.3, “Replication Privilege Checks”), it is strongly recommended that you log `LOAD DATA` operations using row-based binary logging (`binlog_format=ROW`). If `REQUIRE_ROW_FORMAT` is set for the channel, row-based binary logging is required. With this logging format, the `FILE` privilege is not needed to execute the event, so do not give the `PRIVILEGE_CHECKS_USER` account this privilege. If you need to recover from a replication error involving a `LOAD DATA INFILE` operation logged in statement format, and the replicated event is trusted, you could grant the `FILE` privilege to the `PRIVILEGE_CHECKS_USER` account temporarily, removing it after the replicated event has been applied.

When **mysqlbinlog** reads log events for `LOAD DATA` statements logged in statement-based format, a generated local file is created in a temporary directory. These temporary files are not automatically removed by **mysqlbinlog** or any other MySQL program. If you do use `LOAD DATA` statements with statement-based binary logging, you should delete the temporary files yourself after you no longer need the statement log. For more information, see Section 6.6.9, “mysqlbinlog — Utility for Processing Binary Log Files”.
