### 24.4.11 The INFORMATION\_SCHEMA INNODB\_FT\_DELETED Table

The [`INNODB_FT_DELETED`](information-schema-innodb-ft-deleted-table.html "24.4.11 The INFORMATION_SCHEMA INNODB_FT_DELETED Table") table stores rows that are deleted from the `FULLTEXT` index for an `InnoDB` table. To avoid expensive index reorganization during DML operations for an `InnoDB` `FULLTEXT` index, the information about newly deleted words is stored separately, filtered out of search results when you do a text search, and removed from the main search index only when you issue an [`OPTIMIZE TABLE`](optimize-table.html "13.7.2.4 OPTIMIZE TABLE Statement") statement for the `InnoDB` table. For more information, see [Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes](fulltext-fine-tuning.html#fulltext-optimize "Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes").

This table is empty initially. Before querying it, set the value of the [`innodb_ft_aux_table`](innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_ft_aux_table) system variable to the name (including the database name) of the table that contains the `FULLTEXT` index; for example `test/articles`.

For related usage information and examples, see [Section 14.16.4, “InnoDB INFORMATION\_SCHEMA FULLTEXT Index Tables”](innodb-information-schema-fulltext_index-tables.html "14.16.4 InnoDB INFORMATION_SCHEMA FULLTEXT Index Tables").

The [`INNODB_FT_DELETED`](information-schema-innodb-ft-deleted-table.html "24.4.11 The INFORMATION_SCHEMA INNODB_FT_DELETED Table") table has these columns:

* `DOC_ID`

  The document ID of the newly deleted row. This value might reflect the value of an ID column that you defined for the underlying table, or it can be a sequence value generated by `InnoDB` when the table contains no suitable column. This value is used when you do text searches, to skip rows in the [`INNODB_FT_INDEX_TABLE`](information-schema-innodb-ft-index-table-table.html "24.4.13 The INFORMATION_SCHEMA INNODB_FT_INDEX_TABLE Table") table before data for deleted rows is physically removed from the `FULLTEXT` index by an [`OPTIMIZE TABLE`](optimize-table.html "13.7.2.4 OPTIMIZE TABLE Statement") statement. For more information, see [Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes](fulltext-fine-tuning.html#fulltext-optimize "Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes").

#### Example

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_FT_DELETED;
+--------+
| DOC_ID |
+--------+
|      6 |
|      7 |
|      8 |
+--------+
```

#### Notes

* You must have the [`PROCESS`](privileges-provided.html#priv_process) privilege to query this table.

* Use the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` [`COLUMNS`](information-schema-columns-table.html "24.3.5 The INFORMATION_SCHEMA COLUMNS Table") table or the [`SHOW COLUMNS`](show-columns.html "13.7.5.5 SHOW COLUMNS Statement") statement to view additional information about the columns of this table, including data types and default values.

* For more information about `InnoDB` `FULLTEXT` search, see [Section 14.6.2.4, “InnoDB Full-Text Indexes”](innodb-fulltext-index.html "14.6.2.4 InnoDB Full-Text Indexes"), and [Section 12.9, “Full-Text Search Functions”](fulltext-search.html "12.9 Full-Text Search Functions").
