## 8.6 MySQL Enterprise Encryption

Note

MySQL Enterprise Encryption is an extension included in MySQL Enterprise Edition, a commercial product. To learn more about commercial products, <https://www.mysql.com/products/>.

MySQL Enterprise Edition includes a set of encryption functions that expose OpenSSL capabilities at the SQL level. The functions enable Enterprise applications to perform the following operations:

* Implement added data protection using public-key asymmetric cryptography

* Create public and private keys and digital signatures
* Perform asymmetric encryption and decryption
* Use cryptographic hashing for digital signing and data verification and validation

In releases before MySQL 8.0.30, these functions are based on the `openssl_udf` shared library. From MySQL 8.0.30, they are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`.


### 8.6.1 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Installation and Upgrading

In releases before MySQL 8.0.30, the functions provided by MySQL Enterprise Encryption are installed by creating them individually, based on the `openssl_udf` shared library. From MySQL 8.0.30, the functions are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, and installing the component installs all of the functions. The functions from the `openssl_udf` shared library are deprecated from that release, and you should upgrade to the component instead.

* Installation From MySQL 8.0.30
* Installation To MySQL 8.0.29
* Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption

#### Installation From MySQL 8.0.30

From MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption’s functions are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, rather than being installed from the `openssl_udf` shared library. If you are upgrading to MySQL 8.0.30 from an earlier release where you used MySQL Enterprise Encryption, the functions you created remain available and are supported. However, these legacy functions are deprecated from this release, and it is recommended that you install the component instead. The component functions are backward compatible. For upgrade information, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption.

If you are upgrading, before installing the component, unload the legacy functions using the [`DROP FUNCTION`](drop-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.2 DROP FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statement:

```
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_decrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_derive;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_encrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_sign;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_verify;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_priv_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_pub_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_dh_parameters;
DROP FUNCTION create_digest;
```

The function names must be specified in lowercase. The statements require the `DROP` privilege for the `mysql` database.

To install the component, issue an [`INSTALL COMPONENT`](install-component.html "15.7.4.3 INSTALL COMPONENT Statement") statement:

```
INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_enterprise_encryption";
```

`INSTALL COMPONENT` requires the `INSERT` privilege for the `mysql.component` system table because it adds a row to that table to register the component. To verify that the component has been installed, issue:

```
SELECT * FROM mysql.component;
```

Components listed in `mysql.component` are loaded by the loader service during the startup sequence.

If you need to uninstall the component, issue an `UNINSTALL COMPONENT` statement:

```
UNINSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_enterprise_encryption";
```

For more details, see Section 7.5.1, “Installing and Uninstalling Components”.

Installing the component installs all of the functions, so you do not need to create them using [`CREATE FUNCTION`](create-function.html "15.1.14 CREATE FUNCTION Statement") statements as you do before MySQL 8.0.30. Uninstalling the component uninstalls all of the functions.

When you have installed the component, if you want the component functions to support decryption and verification for content produced by the legacy functions before MySQL 8.0.30, set the component’s system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` to `ON`. Also, if you want to change the maximum length allowed for the RSA keys generated by the component functions, use the component’s system variable `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` to set an appropriate maximum. For configuration information, see Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

#### Installation To MySQL 8.0.29

Before MySQL 8.0.29, MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions are located in a loadable function library file installed in the plugin directory (the directory named by the `plugin_dir` system variable). The function library base name is `openssl_udf` and the suffix is platform dependent. For example, the file name on Linux or Windows is `openssl_udf.so` or `openssl_udf.dll`, respectively.

To install functions from the `openssl_udf` shared library file, use the [`CREATE FUNCTION`](create-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.1 CREATE FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statement. To load all functions from the library, use this set of statements, adjusting the file name suffix as necessary:

```
CREATE FUNCTION asymmetric_decrypt RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION asymmetric_derive RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION asymmetric_encrypt RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION asymmetric_sign RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION asymmetric_verify RETURNS INTEGER
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION create_asymmetric_priv_key RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION create_asymmetric_pub_key RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION create_dh_parameters RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
CREATE FUNCTION create_digest RETURNS STRING
  SONAME 'openssl_udf.so';
```

Once installed, the functions remain installed across server restarts. If you need to unload the functions, use the [`DROP FUNCTION`](drop-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.2 DROP FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statement:

```
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_decrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_derive;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_encrypt;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_sign;
DROP FUNCTION asymmetric_verify;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_priv_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_asymmetric_pub_key;
DROP FUNCTION create_dh_parameters;
DROP FUNCTION create_digest;
```

In the [`CREATE FUNCTION`](create-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.1 CREATE FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") and [`DROP FUNCTION`](drop-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.2 DROP FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statements, the function names must be specified in lowercase. This differs from their use at function invocation time, for which you can use any lettercase.

The [`CREATE FUNCTION`](create-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.1 CREATE FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") and [`DROP FUNCTION`](drop-function-loadable.html "15.7.4.2 DROP FUNCTION Statement for Loadable Functions") statements require the `INSERT` and `DROP` privilege, respectively, for the `mysql` database.

The functions provided by the `openssl_udf` shared library allow a minimum key size of 1024 bits. You can set a maximum key size using the `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, and `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DH_BITS_THRESHOLD` environment variables, as described in Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”. If you do not set a maximum key size, the upper limit is 16384 for the RSA algorithm and 10000 for the DSA algorithm, as specified by OpenSSL.

#### Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption

If you upgrade to MySQL 8.0.30 or later from an earlier release where you used the functions provided by the `openssl_udf` shared library, the functions you created remain available and are supported. However, these legacy functions are deprecated from MySQL 8.0.30, and it is recommended that you install the MySQL Enterprise Encryption component `component_enterprise_encryption` instead.

When you are upgrading, before installing the component, you must unload the legacy functions using the `DROP FUNCTION` statement. For instructions to do this, see Installation From MySQL 8.0.30.

The component functions are backward compatible:

* RSA public and private keys generated by the legacy functions can be used with the component functions.

* Data encrypted with the legacy functions can be decrypted by the component functions.

* Signatures created by the legacy functions can be verified with the component functions.

For the component functions to support decryption and verification for content produced by the legacy functions, you must set the system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` to `ON` (the default is `OFF`). For configuration information, see Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

The legacy functions cannot handle encrypted data, public keys, and signatures created by the component functions, due to the differences in the padding and key format used by the component functions to meet the current standards.

The new functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component have some differences in behavior and support from the legacy functions provided by the `openssl_udf` shared library. The most important of these are as follows:

* The legacy functions support the older DSA algorithm and Diffie-Hellman key exchange method. The component functions use only the generally preferred RSA algorithm.

* For the legacy functions, the minimum RSA key size is less than current best practice. The component functions follow current best practice on minimum RSA key size.

* The legacy functions support only SHA2 for digests, and require digests for signatures. The component functions also support SHA3 for digests (provided that OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use), and do not require digests for signatures, although they support them.

* The `asymmetric_encrypt()` legacy function supports encryption using private keys. The `asymmetric_encrypt()` component function only accepts a public key. It is recommended that you only encrypt using public keys with the legacy function as well.

* The `create_dh_parameters()` and `asymmetric_derive()` legacy functions for the Diffie-Hellman key exchange method are not provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component.

Table 1 summarizes the technical differences in support and operation between the legacy functions provided by the `openssl_udf` shared library, and the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component from MySQL 8.0.30.

**Table 8.48 MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions**

<table frame="all" summary="Compares the capability of the encryption functions before and from MySQL 8.0.30."><col style="width: 30%"/><col style="width: 40%"/><col style="width: 40%"/><thead><tr> <th scope="col"><p> Capability </p></th> <th scope="col"><p> Legacy functions (to MySQL 8.0.29) </p></th> <th scope="col"><p> Component functions (from MySQL 8.0.30) </p></th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th scope="row"><p> Encryption method </p></th> <td><p> RSA, DSA, Diffie-Hellman (DH) </p></td> <td><p> RSA only </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row"><p> Key for encryption </p></th> <td><p> Private or public </p></td> <td><p> Public only </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row"><p> RSA key format </p></th> <td><p> PKCS #1 v1.5 </p></td> <td><p> PKCS #8 </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row"><p> Minimum RSA key size </p></th> <td><p> 1024 bits </p></td> <td><p> 2048 bits </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row">Maximum RSA key size limit</th> <td><p> Set with environment variable <code>MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD</code>, default limit is algorithm maximum 16384 </p></td> <td><p> Set with system variable <code>enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size</code>, default limit is 4096 </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row">Digest algorithms</th> <td><p> SHA2 </p></td> <td><p> SHA2, SHA3 (with OpenSSL 1.1.1) </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row">Signatures</th> <td><p> Digest required </p></td> <td><p> Digests supported but not required, any string of arbitrary length can be used </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row">Output padding</th> <td><p> RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5 </p></td> <td><p> RSAES-OAEP </p></td> </tr><tr> <th scope="row">Signature padding</th> <td><p> RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 </p></td> <td><p> RSASSA-PSS </p></td> </tr></tbody></table>


### 8.6.2 Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption

MySQL Enterprise Encryption lets you limit keys to a length that provides adequate security for your requirements while balancing this with resource usage. You can also configure the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component from MySQL 8.0.30, to support decryption and verification for content produced by the legacy `openssl_udf` shared library functions.

#### Decryption Support By Component Functions For Legacy Functions

By default, the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component from MySQL 8.0.30 do not decrypt encrypted text, or verify signatures, that were produced by the legacy functions provided in earlier releases by the `openssl_udf` shared library. The component functions assume that encrypted text uses the RSAES-OAEP padding scheme, and signatures use the RSASSA-PSS signature scheme. However, encrypted text produced by the legacy functions uses the RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5 padding scheme, and signatures produced by the legacy functions use the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature scheme.

If you want the component functions to support content produced by the legacy functions before MySQL 8.0.30, set the component’s system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` to `ON`. The system variable is available when the component is installed. When you set it to `ON`, the component functions first attempt to decrypt or verify content assuming it has their normal schemes. If that does not work, they also attempt to decrypt or verify the content assuming it has the schemes used by the legacy functions. This behavior is not the default because it increases the time taken to process content that cannot be decrypted or verified at all. If you are not handling content produced by the legacy functions, leave the system variable to default to `OFF`.

#### Key Length Limits

The amount of CPU resources required by MySQL Enterprise Encryption's key generation functions increases as the key length increases. For some installations, this might result in unacceptable CPU usage if applications frequently generate excessively long keys.

OpenSSL specifies a minimum key length of 1024 bits for all keys. OpenSSL also specifies a maximum key length of 16384 bits for RSA keys, 10000 bits for DSA keys, and 10000 bits for DH keys.

From MySQL 8.0.30, the functions provided by the `component_enterprise_encryption` component have a higher minimum key length of 2048 bits for RSA keys, which is in line with current best practice for minimum key lengths. The component's system variable `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` specifies the maximum key size, and it defaults to 4096 bits. You can change this to allow keys up to the maximum length allowed by OpenSSL, 16384 bits.

For releases before MySQL 8.0.30, the legacy functions provided by the `openssl_udf` shared library default to OpenSSL's minimum and maximum limits. If the maximum values are too high, you can specify a lower maximum key length using the following system variables:

* `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`: Maximum DSA key length in bits for `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`. The minimum and maximum values for this variable are 1024 and 10000.

* `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`: Maximum RSA key length in bits for `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`. The minimum and maximum values for this variable are 1024 and 16384.

* `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DH_BITS_THRESHOLD`: Maximum key length in bits for `create_dh_parameters()`. The minimum and maximum values for this variable are 1024 and 10000.

To use any of these environment variables, set them in the environment of the process that starts the server. If set, their values take precedence over the maximum key lengths imposed by OpenSSL. For example, to set a maximum key length of 4096 bits for DSA and RSA keys for `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`, set these variables:

```
export MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD=4096
export MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD=4096
```

The example uses Bourne shell syntax. The syntax for other shells may differ.


### 8.6.3 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Usage and Examples

To use MySQL Enterprise Encryption in applications, invoke the functions that are appropriate for the operations you wish to perform. This section demonstrates how to carry out some representative tasks.

In releases before MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption's functions are based on the `openssl_udf` shared library. From MySQL 8.0.30, the functions are provided by a MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`. In some cases, the behavior of the component functions differs from the behavior of the legacy functions provided by the `openssl_udf`. For a list of the differences, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption. For full details of the behavior of each component's functions, see Section 8.6.4, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Function Reference”.

If you install the legacy functions then upgrade to MySQL 8.0.30 or later, the functions you created remain available, are supported, and continue to work in the same way. However, they are deprecated from MySQL 8.0.30, and it is recommended that you install the MySQL Enterprise Encryption component `component_enterprise_encryption` instead. For instructions to upgrade, see Installation From MySQL 8.0.30.

The following general considerations apply when choosing key lengths and encryption algorithms:

* The strength of encryption for private and public keys increases with the key size, but the time for key generation increases as well.

* For the legacy functions, generation of DH keys takes much longer than RSA or DSA keys. The component functions from MySQL 8.0.30 only support RSA keys.

* Asymmetric encryption functions consume more resources compared to symmetric functions. They are good for encrypting small amounts of data and creating and verifying signatures. For encrypting large amounts of data, symmetric encryption functions are faster. MySQL Server provides the `AES_ENCRYPT()` and `AES_DECRYPT()` functions for symmetric encryption.

Key string values can be created at runtime and stored into a variable or table using `SET`, `SELECT`, or `INSERT`. This example works with both the component function and the legacy function:

```
SET @priv1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
SELECT create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048) INTO @priv2;
INSERT INTO t (key_col) VALUES(create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 1024));
```

Key string values stored in files can be read using the `LOAD_FILE()` function by users who have the `FILE` privilege. Digest and signature strings can be handled similarly.

* Create a private/public key pair
* Use the public key to encrypt data and the private key to decrypt it
* Generate a digest from a string
* Use the digest with a key pair

#### Create a private/public key pair

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
-- Key length in bits; make larger for stronger keys
SET @key_len = 2048;

-- Create private key
SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, @key_len);
-- Derive corresponding public key from private key, using same algorithm
SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv);
```

You can use the key pair to encrypt and decrypt data or to sign and verify data.

#### Use the public key to encrypt data and the private key to decrypt it

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions. In both cases, the members of the key pair must be RSA keys:

```
SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt(@algo, 'My secret text', @pub);
SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt(@algo, @ciphertext, @priv);
```

#### Generate a digest from a string

This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Digest type
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate digest string
SET @dig = create_digest(@dig_type, 'My text to digest');
```

#### Use the digest with a key pair

The key pair can be used to sign data, then verify that the signature matches the digest. This example works with both the component functions and the legacy functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm; keys must
-- have been created using same algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
–- Digest algorithm to sign the data
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @dig, @priv, @dig_type);
-- Verify signature against digest
SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @dig, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
```

For the legacy functions, signatures require a digest. For the component functions, signatures do not require a digest, and can use any data string. The digest type in these functions refers to the algorithm that is used to sign the data, not the algorithm that was used to create the original input for the signature. This example is for the component functions:

```
-- Encryption algorithm; keys must
-- have been created using same algorithm
SET @algo = 'RSA';
–- Arbitrary text string for signature
SET @text = repeat('j', 256);
–- Digest algorithm to sign the data
SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

-- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @text, @priv, @dig_type);
-- Verify signature against digest
SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @text, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
```


### 8.6.4 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Function Reference

In releases from MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption's functions are provided by the MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`. For their descriptions, see Section 8.6.5, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Component Function Descriptions”.

In releases before MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption's functions are based on the `openssl_udf` shared library. The functions continue to be available in later releases if they have been installed, but they are deprecated. For their descriptions, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

For information on upgrading to the new component functions provided by the MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, and a list of the behavior differences between the legacy functions and the component functions, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption.


### 8.6.5 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Component Function Descriptions

In releases from MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption's functions are provided by the MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`. This reference describes those functions.

For information on upgrading to the new component functions provided by the MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, and a list of the behavior differences between the legacy functions and the component functions, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption.

The reference for the legacy functions in releases before MySQL 8.0.30 based on the `openssl_udf` shared library is Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions have these general characteristics:

* For arguments of the wrong type or an incorrect number of arguments, each function returns an error.

* If the arguments are not suitable to permit a function to perform the requested operation, it returns `NULL` or 0 as appropriate. This occurs, for example, if a function does not support a specified algorithm, a key length is too short or long, or a string expected to be a key string in PEM format is not a valid key.

* The underlying SSL library takes care of randomness initialization.

The component functions only support the RSA encryption algorithm.

For additional examples and discussion, see Section 8.6.3, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Usage and Examples”.

* [`asymmetric_decrypt(algorithm, data_str, priv_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-decrypt)

  Decrypts an encrypted string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting plaintext as a binary string. If decryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  By default, the `component_enterprise_encryption` function assumes that encrypted text uses the RSAES-OAEP padding scheme. The function supports decryption for content encrypted by the legacy `openssl_udf` shared library functions if the system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` is set to `ON` (the default is `OFF`). When `ON` is set, the function also supports the RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5 padding scheme, as used by the legacy `openssl_udf` shared library functions. When `OFF` is set, content encrypted by the legacy functions cannot be decrypted, and the function returns null output for such content.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`data_str`* is the encrypted string to decrypt, which was encrypted with `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA private key. For successful decryption, the key string must correspond to the public key string used with `asymmetric_encrypt()` to produce the encrypted string. The `asymmetric_encrypt()` component function only supports encryption using a public key, so decryption takes place with the corresponding private key.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

* [`asymmetric_encrypt(algorithm, data_str, pub_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-encrypt)

  Encrypts a string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting ciphertext as a binary string. If encryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`data_str`* is the string to encrypt. The length of this string cannot be greater than the key string length in bytes, minus 42 (to account for the padding).

  *`pub_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA public key. The `asymmetric_encrypt()` component function only supports encryption using a public key.

  To recover the original unencrypted string, pass the encrypted string to `asymmetric_decrypt()`, along with the other part of the key pair used for encryption, as in the following example:

  ```
  -- Generate private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @priv);

  -- Encrypt using public key, decrypt using private key
  SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'The quick brown fox', @pub);
  SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @priv);
  ```

  Suppose that:

  ```
  SET @s = a string to be encrypted
  SET @priv = a valid private RSA key string in PEM format
  SET @pub = the corresponding public RSA key string in PEM format
  ```

  Then these identity relationships hold:

  ```
  asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', @s, @pub), @priv) = @s
  ```

* [`asymmetric_sign(algorithm, text, priv_key_str, digest_type)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-sign)

  Signs a digest string or data string using a private key, and returns the signature as a binary string. If signing fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`text`* is a data string or digest string. The function accepts digests but does not require them, as it is also capable of handling data strings of an arbitrary length. A digest string can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is the private key string to use for signing the digest string. It must be a valid PEM encoded RSA private key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm to be used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_verify()`.

* [`asymmetric_verify(algorithm, text, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_asymmetric-verify)

  Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string, and returns 1 or 0 to indicate whether verification succeeded or failed. If verification fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  By default, the `component_enterprise_encryption` function assumes that signatures use the RSASSA-PSS signature scheme. The function supports verification for signatures produced by the legacy `openssl_udf` shared library functions if the system variable `enterprise_encryption.rsa_support_legacy_padding` is set to `ON` (the default is `OFF`). When `ON` is set, the function also supports the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature scheme, as used by the legacy `openssl_udf` shared library functions. When `OFF` is set, signatures produced by the legacy functions cannot be verified, and the function returns null output for such content.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`text`* is a data string or digest string. The component function accepts digests but does not require them, as it is also capable of handling data strings of an arbitrary length. A digest string can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`sig_str`* is the signature string to be verified. A signature string can be generated by calling `asymmetric_sign()`.

  *`pub_key_str`* is the public key string of the signer. It corresponds to the private key passed to `asymmetric_sign()` to generate the signature string. It must be a valid PEM encoded RSA public key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm that was used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  ```
  -- Set the encryption algorithm and digest type
  SET @algo = 'RSA';
  SET @dig_type = 'SHA512';

  -- Create private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv);

  -- Generate digest from string
  SET @dig = create_digest(@dig_type, 'The quick brown fox');

  -- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
  SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @dig, @priv, @dig_type);
  SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @dig, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
  ```

* [`create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, key_length)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-asymmetric-priv-key)

  Creates a private key using the given algorithm and key length, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #8 format. If key generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`key_length`* is the key length in bits. If you exceed the maximum allowed key length or specify less than the minimum, key generation fails and the result is null output. The minimum allowed key length in bits is 2048. The maximum allowed key length is the value of the `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable, which defaults to 4096. It has a maximum setting of 16384, which is the maximum key length allowed for the RSA algorithm. See Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

  Note

  Generating longer keys can consume significant CPU resources. Limiting the key length using the `enterprise_encryption.maximum_rsa_key_size` system variable lets you provide adequate security for your requirements while balancing this with resource usage.

  This example creates a 2048-bit RSA private key, then derives a public key from the private key:

  ```
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @priv);
  ```

* [`create_asymmetric_pub_key(algorithm, priv_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-asymmetric-pub-key)

  Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #8 format. If key derivation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA private key.

  For a usage example, see the description of `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`.

* [`create_digest(digest_type, str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions.html#function_create-digest)

  Creates a digest from the given string using the given digest type, and returns the digest as a binary string. If digest generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  For the legacy version of this function in use before MySQL 8.0.29, see Section 8.6.6, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions”.

  The resulting digest string is suitable for use with `asymmetric_sign()` and `asymmetric_verify()`. The component versions of these functions accept digests but do not require them, as they are capable of handling data of an arbitrary length.

  *`digest_type`* is the digest algorithm to be used to generate the digest string. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'` when OpenSSL 1.0.1 is in use. If OpenSSL 1.1.1 is in use, the additional *`digest_type`* values `'SHA3-224'`, `'SHA3-256'`, `'SHA3-384'`, and `'SHA3-512'` are available.

  *`str`* is the non-null data string for which the digest is to be generated.

  ```
  SET @dig = create_digest('SHA512', 'The quick brown fox');
  ```


### 8.6.6 MySQL Enterprise Encryption Legacy Function Descriptions

In releases before MySQL 8.0.30, MySQL Enterprise Encryption's functions are based on the `openssl_udf` shared library. This reference describes those functions. The functions continue to be available in later releases if they have been installed, but they are deprecated.

For information on upgrading to the new component functions provided by the MySQL component `component_enterprise_encryption`, and a list of the behavior differences between the legacy functions and the component functions, see Upgrading MySQL Enterprise Encryption.

The reference for the component functions is Section 8.6.5, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Component Function Descriptions”.

MySQL Enterprise Encryption functions have these general characteristics:

* For arguments of the wrong type or an incorrect number of arguments, each function returns an error.

* If the arguments are not suitable to permit a function to perform the requested operation, it returns `NULL` or 0 as appropriate. This occurs, for example, if a function does not support a specified algorithm, a key length is too short or long, or a string expected to be a key string in PEM format is not a valid key.

* The underlying SSL library takes care of randomness initialization.

Several of the legacy functions take an encryption algorithm argument. The following table summarizes the supported algorithms by function.

**Table 8.49 Supported Algorithms by Function**

<table summary="Supported encryption algorithms by function."><col style="width: 50%"/><col style="width: 50%"/><thead><tr> <th>Function</th> <th>Supported Algorithms</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <td><code>asymmetric_decrypt()</code></td> <td>RSA</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>asymmetric_derive()</code></td> <td>DH</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>asymmetric_encrypt()</code></td> <td>RSA</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>asymmetric_sign()</code></td> <td>RSA, DSA</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>asymmetric_verify()</code></td> <td>RSA, DSA</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>create_asymmetric_priv_key()</code></td> <td>RSA, DSA, DH</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>create_asymmetric_pub_key()</code></td> <td>RSA, DSA, DH</td> </tr><tr> <td><code>create_dh_parameters()</code></td> <td>DH</td> </tr></tbody></table>

Note

Although you can create keys using any of the RSA, DSA, or DH encryption algorithms, other legacy functions that take key arguments might accept only certain types of keys. For example, `asymmetric_encrypt()` and `asymmetric_decrypt()` accept only RSA keys.

For additional examples and discussion, see Section 8.6.3, “MySQL Enterprise Encryption Usage and Examples”.

* `asymmetric_decrypt(algorithm, crypt_str, key_str)`

  Decrypts an encrypted string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting plaintext as a binary string. If decryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  The `openssl_udf` shared library function cannot decrypt content produced by the `component_enterprise_encryption` functions that are available from MySQL 8.0.30.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`crypt_str`* is the encrypted string to decrypt, which was encrypted with `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

  *`key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA public or private key. For successful decryption, the key string must correspond to the public or private key string used with `asymmetric_encrypt()` to produce the encrypted string.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_encrypt()`.

* [`asymmetric_derive(pub_key_str, priv_key_str)`](enterprise-encryption-functions-legacy.html#function_asymmetric-derive)

  Derives a symmetric key using the private key of one party and the public key of another, and returns the resulting key as a binary string. If key derivation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`pub_key_str`* and *`priv_key_str`* are valid PEM encoded key strings that were created using the DH algorithm.

  Suppose that you have two pairs of public and private keys:

  ```
  SET @dhp = create_dh_parameters(1024);
  SET @priv1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dhp);
  SET @pub1 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @priv1);
  SET @priv2 = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DH', @dhp);
  SET @pub2 = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DH', @priv2);
  ```

  Suppose further that you use the private key from one pair and the public key from the other pair to create a symmetric key string. Then this symmetric key identity relationship holds:

  ```
  asymmetric_derive(@pub1, @priv2) = asymmetric_derive(@pub2, @priv1)
  ```

  This example requires DH private/public keys as inputs, created using a shared symmetric secret. Create the secret by passing the key length to `create_dh_parameters()`, then pass the secret as the “key length” to `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`.

  ```
  -- Generate DH shared symmetric secret
  SET @dhp = create_dh_parameters(1024);
  -- Generate DH key pairs
  SET @algo = 'DH';
  SET @priv1 = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, @dhp);
  SET @pub1 = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv1);
  SET @priv2 = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, @dhp);
  SET @pub2 = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv2);

  -- Generate symmetric key using public key of first party,
  -- private key of second party
  SET @sym1 = asymmetric_derive(@pub1, @priv2);

  -- Or use public key of second party, private key of first party
  SET @sym2 = asymmetric_derive(@pub2, @priv1);
  ```

* `asymmetric_encrypt(algorithm, str, key_str)`

  Encrypts a string using the given algorithm and key string, and returns the resulting ciphertext as a binary string. If encryption fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm value is `'RSA'`.

  *`str`* is the string to encrypt. The length of this string cannot be greater than the key string length in bytes, minus 11 (to account for the padding).

  *`key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA public or private key.

  To recover the original unencrypted string, pass the encrypted string to `asymmetric_decrypt()`, along with the other part of the key pair used for encryption, as in the following example:

  ```
  -- Generate private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('RSA', 1024);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('RSA', @priv);

  -- Encrypt using private key, decrypt using public key
  SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'The quick brown fox', @priv);
  SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @pub);

  -- Encrypt using public key, decrypt using private key
  SET @ciphertext = asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', 'The quick brown fox', @pub);
  SET @plaintext = asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', @ciphertext, @priv);
  ```

  Suppose that:

  ```
  SET @s = a string to be encrypted
  SET @priv = a valid private RSA key string in PEM format
  SET @pub = the corresponding public RSA key string in PEM format
  ```

  Then these identity relationships hold:

  ```
  asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', @s, @priv), @pub) = @s
  asymmetric_decrypt('RSA', asymmetric_encrypt('RSA', @s, @pub), @priv) = @s
  ```

* `asymmetric_sign(algorithm, digest_str, priv_key_str, digest_type)`

  Signs a digest string using a private key string, and returns the signature as a binary string. If signing fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm values are `'RSA'` and `'DSA'`.

  *`digest_str`* is a digest string. A digest string can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is the private key string to use for signing the digest string. It can be a valid PEM encoded RSA private key or DSA private key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm to be used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'`.

  For a usage example, see the description of `asymmetric_verify()`.

* `asymmetric_verify(algorithm, digest_str, sig_str, pub_key_str, digest_type)`

  Verifies whether the signature string matches the digest string, and returns 1 or 0 to indicate whether verification succeeded or failed. If verification fails, the result is `NULL`.

  The `openssl_udf` shared library function cannot verify content produced by the `component_enterprise_encryption` functions that are available from MySQL 8.0.30.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm values are `'RSA'` and `'DSA'`.

  *`digest_str`* is the digest string. A digest string is required, and can be generated by calling `create_digest()`.

  *`sig_str`* is the signature string to be verified. A signature string can be generated by calling `asymmetric_sign()`.

  *`pub_key_str`* is the public key string of the signer. It corresponds to the private key passed to `asymmetric_sign()` to generate the signature string. It must be a valid PEM encoded RSA public key or DSA public key.

  *`digest_type`* is the algorithm that was used to sign the data. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'`.

  ```
  -- Set the encryption algorithm and digest type
  SET @algo = 'RSA';
  SET @dig_type = 'SHA224';

  -- Create private/public key pair
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key(@algo, 1024);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key(@algo, @priv);

  -- Generate digest from string
  SET @dig = create_digest(@dig_type, 'The quick brown fox');

  -- Generate signature for digest and verify signature against digest
  SET @sig = asymmetric_sign(@algo, @dig, @priv, @dig_type);
  SET @verf = asymmetric_verify(@algo, @dig, @sig, @pub, @dig_type);
  ```

* `create_asymmetric_priv_key(algorithm, {key_len|dh_secret})`

  Creates a private key using the given algorithm and key length or DH secret, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #1 format. If key generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm values are `'RSA'`, `'DSA'`, and `'DH'`.

  *`key_len`* is the key length in bits for RSA and DSA keys. If you exceed the maximum allowed key length or specify less than the minimum, key generation fails and the result is null output. The minimum allowed key length in bits is 1,024, and the maximum allowed key length is 16,384 for the RSA algorithm or 10,000 for the DSA algorithm. These key-length limits are constraints imposed by OpenSSL. Server administrators can impose additional limits on maximum key length by setting the `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, and `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DH_BITS_THRESHOLD` environment variables. See Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

  Note

  Generating longer keys can consume significant CPU resources. Limiting the key length using the environment variables lets you provide adequate security for your requirements while balancing this with resource usage.

  *`dh_secret`* is a shared DH secret, which must be passed instead of a key length for DH keys. To create the secret, pass the key length to `create_dh_parameters()`.

  This example creates a 2,048-bit DSA private key, then derives a public key from the private key:

  ```
  SET @priv = create_asymmetric_priv_key('DSA', 2048);
  SET @pub = create_asymmetric_pub_key('DSA', @priv);
  ```

  For an example showing DH key generation, see the description of `asymmetric_derive()`.

* `create_asymmetric_pub_key(algorithm, priv_key_str)`

  Derives a public key from the given private key using the given algorithm, and returns the key as a binary string in PEM format. The key is in PKCS #1 format. If key derivation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`algorithm`* is the encryption algorithm used to create the key. The supported algorithm values are `'RSA'`, `'DSA'`, and `'DH'`.

  *`priv_key_str`* is a valid PEM encoded RSA, DSA, or DH private key.

  For a usage example, see the description of `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`.

* `create_dh_parameters(key_len)`

  Creates a shared secret for generating a DH private/public key pair and returns a binary string that can be passed to `create_asymmetric_priv_key()`. If secret generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  *`key_len`* is the key length. The minimum and maximum key lengths in bits are 1,024 and 10,000. These key-length limits are constraints imposed by OpenSSL. Server administrators can impose additional limits on maximum key length by setting the `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_RSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DSA_BITS_THRESHOLD`, and `MYSQL_OPENSSL_UDF_DH_BITS_THRESHOLD` environment variables. See Section 8.6.2, “Configuring MySQL Enterprise Encryption”.

  For an example showing how to use the return value for generating symmetric keys, see the description of `asymmetric_derive()`.

  ```
  SET @dhp = create_dh_parameters(1024);
  ```

* `create_digest(digest_type, str)`

  Creates a digest from the given string using the given digest type, and returns the digest as a binary string. If digest generation fails, the result is `NULL`.

  The resulting digest string is suitable for use with `asymmetric_sign()` and `asymmetric_verify()`. A digest is required for these functions.

  *`digest_type`* is the digest algorithm to be used to generate the digest string. The supported *`digest_type`* values are `'SHA224'`, `'SHA256'`, `'SHA384'`, and `'SHA512'`.

  *`str`* is the non-null data string for which the digest is to be generated.

  ```
  SET @dig = create_digest('SHA512', 'The quick brown fox');
  ```
