## A.2 MySQL 8.0 FAQ: Storage Engines

A.2.1. Where can I obtain complete documentation for MySQL storage engines?

A.2.2. Are there any new storage engines in MySQL 8.0?

A.2.3. Have any storage engines been removed in MySQL 8.0?

A.2.4. Can I prevent the use of a particular storage engine?

A.2.5. Is there an advantage to using the InnoDB storage engine exclusively, as opposed to a combination of InnoDB and non-InnoDB storage engines?

A.2.6. What are the unique benefits of the ARCHIVE storage engine?

<table border="0" style="width: 100%;"><colgroup><col/></colgroup><tbody><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.1.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Where can I obtain complete documentation for MySQL storage engines? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> See Chapter 18, <i>Alternative Storage Engines</i>. That chapter contains information about all MySQL storage engines except for the <code>InnoDB</code> storage engine and the <code>NDB</code> storage engine (used for MySQL Cluster). <code>InnoDB</code> is covered in Chapter 17, <i>The InnoDB Storage Engine</i>. <code>NDB</code> is covered in Chapter 25, <i>MySQL NDB Cluster 8.0</i>. </p></td></tr><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.2.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Are there any new storage engines in MySQL 8.0? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> No. <code>InnoDB</code> is the default storage engine for new tables. See Section 17.1, “Introduction to InnoDB” for details. </p></td></tr><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.3.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Have any storage engines been removed in MySQL 8.0? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> The <code>PARTITION</code> storage engine plugin which provided partitioning support is replaced by a native partitioning handler. As part of this change, the server can no longer be built using <code>-DWITH_PARTITION_STORAGE_ENGINE</code>. <code>partition</code> is also no longer displayed in the output of <code>SHOW PLUGINS</code>, or shown in the <code>INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PLUGINS</code> table. </p><p> In order to support partitioning of a given table, the storage engine used for the table must now provide its own (<span class="quote">“<span class="quote">native</span>”</span>) partitioning handler. <code>InnoDB</code> is the only storage engine supported in MySQL 8.0 that includes a native partitioning handler. An attempt to create partitioned tables in MySQL 8.0 using any other storage engine fails. (The <code>NDB</code> storage engine used by MySQL Cluster also provides its own partitioning handler, but is currently not supported by MySQL 8.0.) </p></td></tr><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.4.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Can I prevent the use of a particular storage engine? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Yes. The <code>disabled_storage_engines</code> configuration option defines which storage engines cannot be used to create tables or tablespaces. By default, <code>disabled_storage_engines</code> is empty (no engines disabled), but it can be set to a comma-separated list of one or more engines. </p></td></tr><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.5.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Is there an advantage to using the <code>InnoDB</code> storage engine exclusively, as opposed to a combination of <code>InnoDB</code> and non-<code>InnoDB</code> storage engines? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> Yes. Using <code>InnoDB</code> tables exclusively can simplify backup and recovery operations. MySQL Enterprise Backup does a hot backup of all tables that use the <code>InnoDB</code> storage engine. For tables using <code>MyISAM</code> or other non-<code>InnoDB</code> storage engines, it does a <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">warm</span>”</span> backup, where the database continues to run, but those tables cannot be modified while being backed up. See Section 32.1, “MySQL Enterprise Backup Overview”. </p></td></tr><tr class="question"><td align="left" valign="top"><p><b>A.2.6.</b></p></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> What are the unique benefits of the <code>ARCHIVE</code> storage engine? </p></td></tr><tr class="answer"><td align="left" valign="top"></td><td align="left" valign="top"><p> The <code>ARCHIVE</code> storage engine stores large amounts of data without indexes; it has a small footprint, and performs selects using table scans. See Section 18.5, “The ARCHIVE Storage Engine”, for details. </p></td></tr></tbody></table>
