### 28.4.17 The INFORMATION_SCHEMA INNODB_FT_DELETED Table

The `INNODB_FT_DELETED` table stores rows that are deleted from the `FULLTEXT` index for an `InnoDB` table. To avoid expensive index reorganization during DML operations for an `InnoDB` `FULLTEXT` index, the information about newly deleted words is stored separately, filtered out of search results when you do a text search, and removed from the main search index only when you issue an `OPTIMIZE TABLE` statement for the `InnoDB` table. For more information, see Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes.

This table is empty initially. Before querying it, set the value of the `innodb_ft_aux_table` system variable to the name (including the database name) of the table that contains the `FULLTEXT` index (for example, `test/articles`).

For related usage information and examples, see Section 17.15.4, “InnoDB INFORMATION_SCHEMA FULLTEXT Index Tables”.

The `INNODB_FT_DELETED` table has these columns:

* `DOC_ID`

  The document ID of the newly deleted row. This value might reflect the value of an ID column that you defined for the underlying table, or it can be a sequence value generated by `InnoDB` when the table contains no suitable column. This value is used when you perform text searches, to skip rows in the `INNODB_FT_INDEX_TABLE` table before data for deleted rows is physically removed from the `FULLTEXT` index by an `OPTIMIZE TABLE` statement. For more information, see Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes.

#### Example

```
mysql> SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_FT_DELETED;
+--------+
| DOC_ID |
+--------+
|      6 |
|      7 |
|      8 |
+--------+
```

#### Notes

* You must have the `PROCESS` privilege to query this table.

* Use the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` `COLUMNS` table or the `SHOW COLUMNS` statement to view additional information about the columns of this table, including data types and default values.

* For more information about `InnoDB` `FULLTEXT` search, see Section 17.6.2.4, “InnoDB Full-Text Indexes”, and Section 14.9, “Full-Text Search Functions”.
