#### 13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement

```sql
RESET MASTER
```

Warning

Use this statement with caution to ensure you do not lose any wanted binary log file data and GTID execution history.

[`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") requires the [`RELOAD`](privileges-provided.html#priv_reload) privilege.

For a server where binary logging is enabled ([`log_bin`](replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_log_bin) is `ON`), `RESET MASTER` deletes all existing binary log files and resets the binary log index file, resetting the server to its state before binary logging was started. A new empty binary log file is created so that binary logging can be restarted.

For a server where GTIDs are in use ([`gtid_mode`](replication-options-gtids.html#sysvar_gtid_mode) is `ON`), issuing `RESET MASTER` resets the GTID execution history. The value of the [`gtid_purged`](replication-options-gtids.html#sysvar_gtid_purged) system variable is set to an empty string (`''`), the global value (but not the session value) of the [`gtid_executed`](replication-options-gtids.html#sysvar_gtid_executed) system variable is set to an empty string, and the `mysql.gtid_executed` table is cleared (see [mysql.gtid_executed Table](replication-gtids-concepts.html#replication-gtids-gtid-executed-table "mysql.gtid_executed Table")). If the GTID-enabled server has binary logging enabled, [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") also resets the binary log as described above. Note that [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") is the method to reset the GTID execution history even if the GTID-enabled server is a replica where binary logging is disabled; [`RESET SLAVE`](reset-slave.html "13.4.2.3 RESET SLAVE Statement") has no effect on the GTID execution history. For more information on resetting the GTID execution history, see [Resetting the GTID Execution History](replication-gtids-lifecycle.html#replication-gtids-execution-history "Resetting the GTID Execution History").

Important

The effects of [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") differ from those of [`PURGE BINARY LOGS`](purge-binary-logs.html "13.4.1.1 PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement") in 2 key ways:

1. [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") removes *all* binary log files that are listed in the index file, leaving only a single, empty binary log file with a numeric suffix of `.000001`, whereas the numbering is not reset by [`PURGE BINARY LOGS`](purge-binary-logs.html "13.4.1.1 PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement").

2. [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") is *not* intended to be used while any replicas are running. The behavior of [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") when used while replicas are running is undefined (and thus unsupported), whereas [`PURGE BINARY LOGS`](purge-binary-logs.html "13.4.1.1 PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement") may be safely used while replicas are running.

See also [Section 13.4.1.1, “PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement”](purge-binary-logs.html "13.4.1.1 PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement").

[`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") can prove useful when you first set up the source and the replica, so that you can verify the setup as follows:

1. Start the source and replica, and start replication (see [Section 16.1.2, “Setting Up Binary Log File Position Based Replication”](replication-howto.html "16.1.2 Setting Up Binary Log File Position Based Replication")).

2. Execute a few test queries on the source.
3. Check that the queries were replicated to the replica.
4. When replication is running correctly, issue [`STOP SLAVE`](stop-slave.html "13.4.2.6 STOP SLAVE Statement") followed by [`RESET SLAVE`](reset-slave.html "13.4.2.3 RESET SLAVE Statement") on the replica, then verify that any unwanted data no longer exists on the replica.

5. Issue [`RESET MASTER`](reset-master.html "13.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement") on the source to clean up the test queries.

After verifying the setup, resetting the source and replica and ensuring that no unwanted data or binary log files generated by testing remain on source or replica, you can start the replica and begin replicating.
