#### 15.4.1.2 RESET MASTER Statement

Note

This statement is replaced in later versions of MySQL by `RESET BINARY LOGS AND GTIDS`, and should be considered deprecated. See RESET BINARY LOGS AND GTIDS Statement, in the *MySQL 8.4 Manual*, for more information.

```
RESET MASTER [TO binary_log_file_index_number]
```

Warning

Use this statement with caution to ensure you do not lose any wanted binary log file data and GTID execution history.

`RESET MASTER` requires the `RELOAD` privilege.

For a server where binary logging is enabled (`log_bin` is `ON`), `RESET MASTER` deletes all existing binary log files and resets the binary log index file, resetting the server to its state before binary logging was started. A new empty binary log file is created so that binary logging can be restarted.

For a server where GTIDs are in use (`gtid_mode` is `ON`), issuing `RESET MASTER` resets the GTID execution history. The value of the `gtid_purged` system variable is set to an empty string (`''`), the global value (but not the session value) of the `gtid_executed` system variable is set to an empty string, and the `mysql.gtid_executed` table is cleared (see mysql.gtid_executed Table). If the GTID-enabled server has binary logging enabled, `RESET MASTER` also resets the binary log as described above. Note that `RESET MASTER` is the method to reset the GTID execution history even if the GTID-enabled server is a replica where binary logging is disabled; `RESET REPLICA` has no effect on the GTID execution history. For more information on resetting the GTID execution history, see Resetting the GTID Execution History.

Issuing `RESET MASTER` without the optional `TO` clause deletes all binary log files listed in the index file, resets the binary log index file to be empty, and creates a new binary log file starting at `1`. Use the optional `TO` clause to start the binary log file index from a number other than `1` after the reset.

Check that you are using a reasonable value for the index number. If you enter an incorrect value, you can correct this by issuing another `RESET MASTER` statement with or without the `TO` clause. If you do not correct a value that is out of range, the server cannot be restarted.

The following example demonstrates `TO` clause usage:

```
RESET MASTER TO 1234;

SHOW BINARY LOGS;
+-------------------+-----------+-----------+
| Log_name          | File_size | Encrypted |
+-------------------+-----------+-----------+
| source-bin.001234 |       154 | No        |
+-------------------+-----------+-----------+
```

Important

The effects of `RESET MASTER` without the `TO` clause differ from those of `PURGE BINARY LOGS` in 2 key ways:

1. `RESET MASTER` removes *all* binary log files that are listed in the index file, leaving only a single, empty binary log file with a numeric suffix of `.000001`, whereas the numbering is not reset by `PURGE BINARY LOGS`.

2. `RESET MASTER` is *not* intended to be used while any replicas are running. The behavior of `RESET MASTER` when used while replicas are running is undefined (and thus unsupported), whereas `PURGE BINARY LOGS` may be safely used while replicas are running.

See also Section 15.4.1.1, “PURGE BINARY LOGS Statement”.

`RESET MASTER` without the `TO` clause can prove useful when you first set up a source and replica, so that you can verify the setup as follows:

1. Start the source and replica, and start replication (see Section 19.1.2, “Setting Up Binary Log File Position Based Replication”).

2. Execute a few test queries on the source.
3. Check that the queries were replicated to the replica.
4. When replication is running correctly, issue `STOP REPLICA` followed by `RESET REPLICA` on the replica, then verify that no unwanted data from the test queries exists on the replica.

5. Remove the unwanted data from the source, then issue `RESET MASTER` to purge any binary log entries and identifiers associated with it.

After verifying the setup, resetting the source and replica and ensuring that no unwanted data or binary log files generated by testing remain on the source or replica, you can start the replica and begin replicating.
