#### 13.3.7.3 Restrictions on XA Transactions

XA transaction support is limited to the `InnoDB` storage engine.

For “external XA,” a MySQL server acts as a Resource Manager and client programs act as Transaction Managers. For “Internal XA”, storage engines within a MySQL server act as RMs, and the server itself acts as a TM. Internal XA support is limited by the capabilities of individual storage engines. Internal XA is required for handling XA transactions that involve more than one storage engine. The implementation of internal XA requires that a storage engine support two-phase commit at the table handler level, and currently this is true only for `InnoDB`.

For [`XA START`](xa-statements.html "13.3.7.1 XA Transaction SQL Statements"), the `JOIN` and `RESUME` clauses are recognized but have no effect.

For [`XA END`](xa-statements.html "13.3.7.1 XA Transaction SQL Statements") the `SUSPEND [FOR MIGRATE]` clause is recognized but has no effect.

The requirement that the *`bqual`* part of the *`xid`* value be different for each XA transaction within a global transaction is a limitation of the current MySQL XA implementation. It is not part of the XA specification.

Prior to MySQL 5.7.7, XA transactions were not compatible with replication. This was because an XA transaction that was in `PREPARED` state would be rolled back on clean server shutdown or client disconnect. Similarly, an XA transaction that was in `PREPARED` state would still exist in `PREPARED` state in case the server was shutdown abnormally and then started again, but the contents of the transaction could not be written to the binary log. In both of these situations the XA transaction could not be replicated correctly.

In MySQL 5.7.7 and later, there is a change in behavior and an XA transaction is written to the binary log in two parts. When `XA PREPARE`  is issued, the first part of the transaction up to `XA PREPARE` is written using an initial GTID. A `XA_prepare_log_event` is used to identify such transactions in the binary log. When `XA COMMIT` or `XA ROLLBACK` is issued, a second part of the transaction containing only the `XA COMMIT` or `XA ROLLBACK` statement is written using a second GTID. Note that the initial part of the transaction, identified by `XA_prepare_log_event`, is not necessarily followed by its `XA COMMIT` or `XA ROLLBACK`, which can cause interleaved binary logging of any two XA transactions. The two parts of the XA transaction can even appear in different binary log files. This means that an XA transaction in `PREPARED` state is now persistent until an explicit `XA COMMIT` or `XA ROLLBACK` statement is issued, ensuring that XA transactions are compatible with replication.

On a replica, immediately after the XA transaction is prepared, it is detached from the replica applier thread, and can be committed or rolled back by any thread on the replica. This means that the same XA transaction can appear in the [`events_transactions_current`](performance-schema-events-transactions-current-table.html "25.12.7.1 The events_transactions_current Table") table with different states on different threads. The [`events_transactions_current`](performance-schema-events-transactions-current-table.html "25.12.7.1 The events_transactions_current Table") table displays the current status of the most recent monitored transaction event on the thread, and does not update this status when the thread is idle. So the XA transaction can still be displayed in the `PREPARED` state for the original applier thread, after it has been processed by another thread. To positively identify XA transactions that are still in the `PREPARED` state and need to be recovered, use the [`XA RECOVER`](xa-statements.html "13.3.7.1 XA Transaction SQL Statements") statement rather than the Performance Schema transaction tables.

The following restrictions exist for using XA transactions in MySQL 5.7.7 and later:

* XA transactions are not fully resilient to an unexpected halt with respect to the binary log. If there is an unexpected halt while the server is in the middle of executing an `XA PREPARE`, `XA COMMIT`, `XA ROLLBACK`, or `XA COMMIT ... ONE PHASE` statement, the server might not be able to recover to a correct state, leaving the server and the binary log in an inconsistent state. In this situation, the binary log might either contain extra XA transactions that are not applied, or miss XA transactions that are applied. Also, if GTIDs are enabled, after recovery `@@GLOBAL.GTID_EXECUTED` might not correctly describe the transactions that have been applied. Note that if an unexpected halt occurs before `XA PREPARE`, between `XA PREPARE` and `XA COMMIT` (or `XA ROLLBACK`), or after `XA COMMIT` (or `XA ROLLBACK`), the server and binary log are correctly recovered and taken to a consistent state.

* The use of replication filters or binary log filters in combination with XA transactions is not supported. Filtering of tables could cause an XA transaction to be empty on a replica, and empty XA transactions are not supported. Also, with the settings [`master_info_repository=TABLE`](replication-options-replica.html#sysvar_master_info_repository) and [`relay_log_info_repository=TABLE`](replication-options-replica.html#sysvar_relay_log_info_repository) on a replica, which became the defaults in MySQL 8.0, the internal state of the data engine transaction is changed following a filtered XA transaction, and can become inconsistent with the replication transaction context state.

  The error [`ER_XA_REPLICATION_FILTERS`](/doc/mysql-errors/5.7/en/server-error-reference.html#error_er_xa_replication_filters) is logged whenever an XA transaction is impacted by a replication filter, whether or not the transaction was empty as a result. If the transaction is not empty, the replica is able to continue running, but you should take steps to discontinue the use of replication filters with XA transactions in order to avoid potential issues. If the transaction is empty, the replica stops. In that event, the replica might be in an undetermined state in which the consistency of the replication process might be compromised. In particular, the `gtid_executed` set on a replica of the replica might be inconsistent with that on the source. To resolve this situation, isolate the source and stop all replication, then check GTID consistency across the replication topology. Undo the XA transaction that generated the error message, then restart replication.

* Prior to MySQL 5.7.19, [`FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK`](flush.html#flush-tables-with-read-lock) is not compatible with XA transactions.

* XA transactions are considered unsafe for statement-based replication. If two XA transactions committed in parallel on the source are being prepared on the replica in the inverse order, locking dependencies can occur that cannot be safely resolved, and it is possible for replication to fail with deadlock on the replica. This situation can occur for a single-threaded or multithreaded replica. When [`binlog_format=STATEMENT`](replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_binlog_format) is set, a warning is issued for DML statements inside XA transactions. When [`binlog_format=MIXED`](replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_binlog_format) or [`binlog_format=ROW`](replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_binlog_format) is set, DML statements inside XA transactions are logged using row-based replication, and the potential issue is not present.
