#### 8.4.5.8 Writing Audit Log Filter Definitions

Filter definitions are  `JSON` values. For information about using `JSON` data in MySQL, see Section 13.5, “The JSON Data Type”.

Filter definitions have this form, where *`actions`* indicates how filtering takes place:

```
{ "filter": actions }
```

The following discussion describes permitted constructs in filter definitions.

*  Logging All Events
*  Logging Specific Event Classes
*  Logging Specific Event Subclasses
*  Inclusive and Exclusive Logging
*  Testing Event Field Values
*  Blocking Execution of Specific Events
*  Logical Operators
*  Referencing Predefined Variables
*  Referencing Predefined Functions
*  Replacement of Event Field Values
*  Replacing a User Filter

##### Logging All Events

To explicitly enable or disable logging of all events, use a `log` item in the filter:

```
{
  "filter": { "log": true }
}
```

The `log` value can be either `true` or `false`.

The preceding filter enables logging of all events. It is equivalent to:

```
{
  "filter": { }
}
```

Logging behavior depends on the `log` value and whether `class` or `event` items are specified:

* With `log` specified, its given value is used.
* Without `log` specified, logging is `true` if no `class` or `event` item is specified, and `false` otherwise (in which case, `class` or `event` can include their own `log` item).

##### Logging Specific Event Classes

To log events of a specific class, use a `class` item in the filter, with its `name` field denoting the name of the class to log:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": { "name": "connection" }
  }
}
```

The `name` value can be `connection`, `general`, or `table_access` to log connection, general, or table-access events, respectively.

The preceding filter enables logging of events in the `connection` class. It is equivalent to the following filter with `log` items made explicit:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "log": false,
    "class": { "log": true,
               "name": "connection" }
  }
}
```

To enable logging of multiple classes, define the `class` value as a `JSON` array element that names the classes:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": [
      { "name": "connection" },
      { "name": "general" },
      { "name": "table_access" }
    ]
  }
}
```

::: info Note

When multiple instances of a given item appear at the same level within a filter definition, the item values can be combined into a single instance of that item within an array value. The preceding definition can be written like this:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": [
      { "name": [ "connection", "general", "table_access" ] }
    ]
  }
}
```

:::

##### Logging Specific Event Subclasses

To select specific event subclasses, use an `event` item containing a `name` item that names the subclasses. The default action for events selected by an `event` item is to log them. For example, this filter enables logging for the named event subclasses:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": [
      {
        "name": "connection",
        "event": [
          { "name": "connect" },
          { "name": "disconnect" }
        ]
      },
      { "name": "general" },
      {
        "name": "table_access",
        "event": [
          { "name": "insert" },
          { "name": "delete" },
          { "name": "update" }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The `event` item can also contain explicit `log` items to indicate whether to log qualifying events. This `event` item selects multiple events and explicitly indicates logging behavior for them:

```
"event": [
  { "name": "read", "log": false },
  { "name": "insert", "log": true },
  { "name": "delete", "log": true },
  { "name": "update", "log": true }
]
```

The `event` item can also indicate whether to block qualifying events, if it contains an `abort` item. For details, see Blocking Execution of Specific Events.

 Table 8.34, “Event Class and Subclass Combinations” describes the permitted subclass values for each event class.

**Table 8.34 Event Class and Subclass Combinations**

<table><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 60%"/><thead><tr> <th>Event Class</th> <th>Event Subclass</th> <th>Description</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>connect</code></td> <td>Connection initiation (successful or unsuccessful)</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>change_user</code></td> <td>User re-authentication with different user/password during session</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>disconnect</code></td> <td>Connection termination</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general</code></th> <td><code>status</code></td> <td>General operation information</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>message</code></th> <td><code>internal</code></td> <td>Internally generated message</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>message</code></th> <td><code>user</code></td> <td>Message generated by <code>audit_api_message_emit_udf()</code></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>read</code></td> <td>Table read statements, such as <code>SELECT</code> or <code>INSERT INTO ... SELECT</code></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>delete</code></td> <td>Table delete statements, such as <code>DELETE</code> or <code>TRUNCATE TABLE</code></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>insert</code></td> <td>Table insert statements, such as <code>INSERT</code> or <code>REPLACE</code></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>update</code></td> <td>Table update statements, such as <code>UPDATE</code></td> </tr></tbody></table>

 Table 8.35, “Log and Abort Characteristics Per Event Class and Subclass Combination” describes for each event subclass whether it can be logged or aborted.

**Table 8.35 Log and Abort Characteristics Per Event Class and Subclass Combination**

<table><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 30%"/><col style="width: 30%"/><thead><tr> <th>Event Class</th> <th>Event Subclass</th> <th>Can be Logged</th> <th>Can be Aborted</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>connect</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>No</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>change_user</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>No</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection</code></th> <td><code>disconnect</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>No</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general</code></th> <td><code>status</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>No</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>message</code></th> <td><code>internal</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>message</code></th> <td><code>user</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>read</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>delete</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>insert</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_access</code></th> <td><code>update</code></td> <td>Yes</td> <td>Yes</td> </tr></tbody></table>

##### Inclusive and Exclusive Logging

A filter can be defined in inclusive or exclusive mode:

* Inclusive mode logs only explicitly specified items.
* Exclusive mode logs everything but explicitly specified items.

To perform inclusive logging, disable logging globally and enable logging for specific classes. This filter logs `connect` and `disconnect` events in the `connection` class, and events in the `general` class:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "log": false,
    "class": [
      {
        "name": "connection",
        "event": [
          { "name": "connect", "log": true },
          { "name": "disconnect", "log": true }
        ]
      },
      { "name": "general", "log": true }
    ]
  }
}
```

To perform exclusive logging, enable logging globally and disable logging for specific classes. This filter logs everything except events in the `general` class:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "log": true,
    "class":
      { "name": "general", "log": false }
  }
}
```

This filter logs `change_user` events in the `connection` class, `message` events, and `table_access` events, by virtue of *not* logging everything else:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "log": true,
    "class": [
      {
        "name": "connection",
        "event": [
          { "name": "connect", "log": false },
          { "name": "disconnect", "log": false }
        ]
      },
      { "name": "general", "log": false }
    ]
  }
}
```

##### Testing Event Field Values

To enable logging based on specific event field values, specify a `field` item within the `log` item that indicates the field name and its expected value:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
    "name": "general",
      "event": {
        "name": "status",
        "log": {
          "field": { "name": "general_command.str", "value": "Query" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Each event contains event class-specific fields that can be accessed from within a filter to perform custom filtering.

An event in the `connection` class indicates when a connection-related activity occurs during a session, such as a user connecting to or disconnecting from the server. Table 8.36, “Connection Event Fields” indicates the permitted fields for `connection` events.

**Table 8.36 Connection Event Fields**

<table><col style="width: 35%"/><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 45%"/><thead><tr> <th>Field Name</th> <th>Field Type</th> <th>Description</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th><code>status</code></th> <td>integer</td> <td><p> Event status: </p><p> 0: OK </p><p> Otherwise: Failed </p></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection_id</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Connection ID</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>User name specified during authentication</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>User name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>priv_user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Authenticated user name (account user name)</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>priv_user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Authenticated user name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>external_user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>External user name (provided by third-party authentication plugin)</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>external_user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>External user name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>proxy_user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Proxy user name</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>proxy_user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Proxy user name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>host.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Connected user host</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>host.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Connected user host length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>ip.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Connected user IP address</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>ip.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Connected user IP address length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>database.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Database name specified at connect time</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>database.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Database name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>connection_type</code></th> <td>integer</td> <td><p> Connection type: </p><p> 0 or <code>"::undefined"</code>: Undefined </p><p> 1 or <code>"::tcp/ip"</code>: TCP/IP </p><p> 2 or <code>"::socket"</code>: Socket </p><p> 3 or <code>"::named_pipe"</code>: Named pipe </p><p> 4 or <code>"::ssl"</code>: TCP/IP with encryption </p><p> 5 or <code>"::shared_memory"</code>: Shared memory </p></td> </tr></tbody></table>

The `"::xxx"` values are symbolic pseudo-constants that may be given instead of the literal numeric values. They must be quoted as strings and are case-sensitive.

An event in the `general` class indicates the status code of an operation and its details. Table 8.37, “General Event Fields” indicates the permitted fields for `general` events.

**Table 8.37 General Event Fields**

<table><col style="width: 35%"/><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 45%"/><thead><tr> <th>Field Name</th> <th>Field Type</th> <th>Description</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th><code>general_error_code</code></th> <td>integer</td> <td><p> Event status: </p><p> 0: OK </p><p> Otherwise: Failed </p></td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_thread_id</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Connection/thread ID</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>User name specified during authentication</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>User name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_command.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Command name</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_command.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Command name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_query.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>SQL statement text</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_query.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>SQL statement text length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_host.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Host name</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_host.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Host name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_sql_command.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>SQL command type name</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_sql_command.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>SQL command type name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_external_user.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>External user name (provided by third-party authentication plugin)</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_external_user.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>External user name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_ip.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Connected user IP address</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>general_ip.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Connection user IP address length</td> </tr></tbody></table>

`general_command.str` indicates a command name: `Query`, `Execute`, `Quit`, or `Change user`.

A `general` event with the `general_command.str` field set to `Query` or `Execute` contains `general_sql_command.str` set to a value that specifies the type of SQL command: `alter_db`, `alter_db_upgrade`, `admin_commands`, and so forth. The available `general_sql_command.str` values can be seen as the last components of the Performance Schema instruments displayed by this statement:

```
mysql> SELECT NAME FROM performance_schema.setup_instruments
       WHERE NAME LIKE 'statement/sql/%' ORDER BY NAME;
+---------------------------------------+
| NAME                                  |
+---------------------------------------+
| statement/sql/alter_db                |
| statement/sql/alter_db_upgrade        |
| statement/sql/alter_event             |
| statement/sql/alter_function          |
| statement/sql/alter_instance          |
| statement/sql/alter_procedure         |
| statement/sql/alter_server            |
...
```

An event in the `table_access` class provides information about a specific type of access to a table. Table 8.38, “Table-Access Event Fields” indicates the permitted fields for `table_access` events.

**Table 8.38 Table-Access Event Fields**

<table><col style="width: 35%"/><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 45%"/><thead><tr> <th>Field Name</th> <th>Field Type</th> <th>Description</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <th><code>connection_id</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Event connection ID</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>sql_command_id</code></th> <td>integer</td> <td>SQL command ID</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>query.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>SQL statement text</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>query.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>SQL statement text length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_database.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Database name associated with event</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_database.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Database name length</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_name.str</code></th> <td>string</td> <td>Table name associated with event</td> </tr><tr> <th><code>table_name.length</code></th> <td>unsigned integer</td> <td>Table name length</td> </tr></tbody></table>

The following list shows which statements produce which table-access events:

* `read` event:

  + `SELECT`
  + `INSERT ... SELECT` (for tables referenced in `SELECT` clause)
  + `REPLACE ... SELECT` (for tables referenced in `SELECT` clause)
  + `UPDATE ... WHERE` (for tables referenced in `WHERE` clause)
  + `HANDLER ... READ`
* `delete` event:

  + `DELETE`
  + `TRUNCATE TABLE`
* `insert` event:

  + `INSERT`
  + `INSERT ... SELECT` (for table referenced in `INSERT` clause)
  + `REPLACE`
  + `REPLACE ... SELECT` (for table referenced in `REPLACE` clause
  + `LOAD DATA`
  + `LOAD XML`
* `update` event:

  + `UPDATE`
  + `UPDATE ... WHERE` (for tables referenced in `UPDATE` clause)

##### Blocking Execution of Specific Events

`event` items can include an `abort` item that indicates whether to prevent qualifying events from executing. `abort` enables rules to be written that block execution of specific SQL statements.

Important

It is theoretically possible for a user with sufficient permissions to mistakenly create an `abort` item in the audit log filter that prevents themselves and other administrators from accessing the system. The `AUDIT_ABORT_EXEMPT` privilege is available to permit a user account’s queries to always be executed even if an `abort` item would block them. Accounts with this privilege can therefore be used to regain access to a system following an audit misconfiguration. The query is still logged in the audit log, but instead of being rejected, it is permitted due to the privilege.

Accounts created with the `SYSTEM_USER` privilege have the  `AUDIT_ABORT_EXEMPT` privilege assigned automatically when they are created. The `AUDIT_ABORT_EXEMPT` privilege is also assigned to existing accounts with the `SYSTEM_USER` privilege when you carry out an upgrade procedure, if no existing accounts have that privilege assigned.

The `abort` item must appear within an `event` item. For example:

```
"event": {
  "name": qualifying event subclass names
  "abort": condition
}
```

For event subclasses selected by the `name` item, the `abort` action is true or false, depending on *`condition`* evaluation. If the condition evaluates to true, the event is blocked. Otherwise, the event continues executing.

The *`condition`* specification can be as simple as `true` or `false`, or it can be more complex such that evaluation depends on event characteristics.

This filter blocks  `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "table_access",
      "event": {
        "name": [ "insert", "update", "delete" ],
        "abort": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This more complex filter blocks the same statements, but only for a specific table (`finances.bank_account`):

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "table_access",
      "event": {
        "name": [ "insert", "update", "delete" ],
        "abort": {
          "and": [
            { "field": { "name": "table_database.str", "value": "finances" } },
            { "field": { "name": "table_name.str", "value": "bank_account" } }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Statements matched and blocked by the filter return an error to the client:

```
ERROR 1045 (28000): Statement was aborted by an audit log filter
```

Not all events can be blocked (see Table 8.35, “Log and Abort Characteristics Per Event Class and Subclass Combination”). For an event that cannot be blocked, the audit log writes a warning to the error log rather than blocking it.

For attempts to define a filter in which the `abort` item appears elsewhere than in an `event` item, an error occurs.

##### Logical Operators

Logical operators (`and`, `or`, `not`) permit construction of complex conditions, enabling more advanced filtering configurations to be written. The following `log` item logs only `general` events with `general_command` fields having a specific value and length:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "general",
      "event": {
        "name": "status",
        "log": {
          "or": [
            {
              "and": [
                { "field": { "name": "general_command.str",    "value": "Query" } },
                { "field": { "name": "general_command.length", "value": 5 } }
              ]
            },
            {
              "and": [
                { "field": { "name": "general_command.str",    "value": "Execute" } },
                { "field": { "name": "general_command.length", "value": 7 } }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Referencing Predefined Variables

To refer to a predefined variable in a `log` condition, use a `variable` item, which takes `name` and `value` items and tests equality of the named variable against a given value:

```
"variable": {
  "name": "variable_name",
  "value": comparison_value
}
```

This is true if *`variable_name`* has the value *`comparison_value`*, false otherwise.

Example:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "general",
      "event": {
        "name": "status",
        "log": {
          "variable": {
            "name": "audit_log_connection_policy_value",
            "value": "::none"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Each predefined variable corresponds to a system variable. By writing a filter that tests a predefined variable, you can modify filter operation by setting the corresponding system variable, without having to redefine the filter. For example, by writing a filter that tests the value of the `audit_log_connection_policy_value` predefined variable, you can modify filter operation by changing the value of the `audit_log_connection_policy` system variable.

The `audit_log_xxx_policy` system variables are used for the deprecated legacy mode audit log (see  Section 8.4.5.10, “Legacy Mode Audit Log Filtering”). With rule-based audit log filtering, those variables remain visible (for example, using `SHOW VARIABLES`), but changes to them have no effect unless you write filters containing constructs that refer to them.

The following list describes the permitted predefined variables for `variable` items:

* `audit_log_connection_policy_value`

  This variable corresponds to the value of the `audit_log_connection_policy` system variable. The value is an unsigned integer. Table 8.39, “audit_log_connection_policy_value Values” shows the permitted values and the corresponding `audit_log_connection_policy` values.

  **Table 8.39 audit_log_connection_policy_value Values**

  <table><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 80%"/><thead><tr> <th>Value</th> <th>Corresponding audit_log_connection_policy Value</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <td><code>0</code> or <code>"::none"</code></td> <td><code>NONE</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>1</code> or <code>"::errors"</code></td> <td><code>ERRORS</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>2</code> or <code>"::all"</code></td> <td><code>ALL</code></td> </tr></tbody></table>

  The `"::xxx"` values are symbolic pseudo-constants that may be given instead of the literal numeric values. They must be quoted as strings and are case-sensitive.
* `audit_log_policy_value`

  This variable corresponds to the value of the `audit_log_policy` system variable. The value is an unsigned integer. Table 8.40, “audit_log_policy_value Values” shows the permitted values and the corresponding `audit_log_policy` values.

  **Table 8.40 audit_log_policy_value Values**

  <table><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 80%"/><thead><tr> <th>Value</th> <th>Corresponding audit_log_policy Value</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <td><code>0</code> or <code>"::none"</code></td> <td><code>NONE</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>1</code> or <code>"::logins"</code></td> <td><code>LOGINS</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>2</code> or <code>"::all"</code></td> <td><code>ALL</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>3</code> or <code>"::queries"</code></td> <td><code>QUERIES</code></td> </tr></tbody></table>

  The `"::xxx"` values are symbolic pseudo-constants that may be given instead of the literal numeric values. They must be quoted as strings and are case-sensitive.
* `audit_log_statement_policy_value`

  This variable corresponds to the value of the `audit_log_statement_policy` system variable. The value is an unsigned integer. Table 8.41, “audit_log_statement_policy_value Values” shows the permitted values and the corresponding `audit_log_statement_policy` values.

  **Table 8.41 audit_log_statement_policy_value Values**

  <table><col style="width: 20%"/><col style="width: 80%"/><thead><tr> <th>Value</th> <th>Corresponding audit_log_statement_policy Value</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <td><code>0</code> or <code>"::none"</code></td> <td><code>NONE</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>1</code> or <code>"::errors"</code></td> <td><code>ERRORS</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>2</code> or <code>"::all"</code></td> <td><code>ALL</code></td> </tr></tbody></table>

  The `"::xxx"` values are symbolic pseudo-constants that may be given instead of the literal numeric values. They must be quoted as strings and are case-sensitive.

##### Referencing Predefined Functions

To refer to a predefined function in a `log` condition, use a `function` item, which takes `name` and `args` items to specify the function name and its arguments, respectively:

```
"function": {
  "name": "function_name",
  "args": arguments
}
```

The `name` item should specify the function name only, without parentheses or the argument list.

The `args` item must satisfy these conditions:

* If the function takes no arguments, no `args` item should be given.
* If the function does take arguments, an `args` item is needed, and the arguments must be given in the order listed in the function description. Arguments can refer to predefined variables, event fields, or string or numeric constants.

If the number of arguments is incorrect or the arguments are not of the correct data types required by the function an error occurs.

Example:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "general",
      "event": {
        "name": "status",
        "log": {
          "function": {
            "name": "find_in_include_list",
            "args": [ { "string": [ { "field": "user.str" },
                                    { "string": "@"},
                                    { "field": "host.str" } ] } ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The preceding filter determines whether to log `general` class `status` events depending on whether the current user is found in the `audit_log_include_accounts` system variable. That user is constructed using fields in the event.

The following list describes the permitted predefined functions for `function` items:

* `audit_log_exclude_accounts_is_null()`

  Checks whether the `audit_log_exclude_accounts` system variable is `NULL`. This function can be helpful when defining filters that correspond to the legacy audit log implementation.

  Arguments:

  None.
* `audit_log_include_accounts_is_null()`

  Checks whether the `audit_log_include_accounts` system variable is `NULL`. This function can be helpful when defining filters that correspond to the legacy audit log implementation.

  Arguments:

  None.
* `debug_sleep(millisec)`

  Sleeps for the given number of milliseconds. This function is used during performance measurement.

  `debug_sleep()` is available for debug builds only.

  Arguments:

  + *`millisec`*: An unsigned integer that specifies the number of milliseconds to sleep.
* `find_in_exclude_list(account)`

  Checks whether an account string exists in the audit log exclude list (the value of the `audit_log_exclude_accounts` system variable).

  Arguments:

  + *`account`*: A string that specifies the user account name.
* `find_in_include_list(account)`

  Checks whether an account string exists in the audit log include list (the value of the `audit_log_include_accounts` system variable).

  Arguments:

  + *`account`*: A string that specifies the user account name.
* `query_digest([str])`

  This function has differing behavior depending on whether an argument is given:

  + With no argument, `query_digest` returns the statement digest value corresponding to the statement literal text in the current event.
  + With an argument, `query_digest` returns a Boolean indicating whether the argument is equal to the current statement digest.

  Arguments:

  + *`str`*: This argument is optional. If given, it specifies a statement digest to be compared against the digest for the statement in the current event.

  Examples:

  This `function` item includes no argument, so `query_digest` returns the current statement digest as a string:

  ```
  "function": {
    "name": "query_digest"
  }
  ```

  This `function` item includes an argument, so `query_digest` returns a Boolean indicating whether the argument equals the current statement digest:

  ```
  "function": {
    "name": "query_digest",
    "args": "SELECT ?"
  }
  ```
* `string_find(text, substr)`

  Checks whether the `substr` value is contained in the `text` value. This search is case-sensitive.

  Arguments:

  + *`text`*: The text string to search.
  + *`substr`*: The substring to search for in *`text`*.

##### Replacement of Event Field Values

Audit filter definitions support replacement of certain audit event fields, so that logged events contain the replacement value rather than the original value. This capability enables logged audit records to include statement digests rather than literal statements, which can be useful for MySQL deployments for which statements may expose sensitive values.

Field replacement in audit events works like this:

* Field replacements are specified in audit filter definitions, so audit log filtering must be enabled as described in  Section 8.4.5.7, “Audit Log Filtering”.
* Not all fields can be replaced. Table 8.42, “Event Fields Subject to Replacement” shows which fields are replaceable in which event classes.

  **Table 8.42 Event Fields Subject to Replacement**

  <table><col style="width: 50%"/><col style="width: 50%"/><thead><tr> <th>Event Class</th> <th>Field Name</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr> <td><code>general</code></td> <td><code>general_query.str</code></td> </tr><tr> <td><code>table_access</code></td> <td><code>query.str</code></td> </tr></tbody></table>
* Replacement is conditional. Each replacement specification in a filter definition includes a condition, enabling a replaceable field to be changed, or left unchanged, depending on the condition result.
* If replacement occurs, the replacement specification indicates the replacement value using a function that is permitted for that purpose.

As  Table 8.42, “Event Fields Subject to Replacement” shows, currently the only replaceable fields are those that contain statement text (which occurs in events of the `general` and `table_access` classes). In addition, the only function permitted for specifying the replacement value is `query_digest`. This means that the only permitted replacement operation is to replace statement literal text by its corresponding digest.

Because field replacement occurs at an early auditing stage (during filtering), the choice of whether to write statement literal text or digest values applies regardless of log format written later (that is, whether the audit log plugin produces XML or JSON output).

Field replacement can take place at differing levels of event granularity:

* To perform field replacement for all events in a class, filter events at the class level.
* To perform replacement on a more fine-grained basis, include additional event-selection items. For example, you can perform field replacement only for specific subclasses of a given event class, or only in events for which fields have certain characteristics.

Within a filter definition, specify field replacement by including a `print` item, which has this syntax:

```
"print": {
  "field": {
    "name": "field_name",
    "print": condition,
    "replace": replacement_value
  }
}
```

Within the `print` item, its `field` item takes these three items to indicate how whether and how replacement occurs:

* `name`: The field for which replacement (potentially) occurs. *`field_name`* must be one of those shown in Table 8.42, “Event Fields Subject to Replacement”.
* `print`: The condition that determines whether to retain the original field value or replace it:

  + If *`condition`* evaluates to `true`, the field remains unchanged.
  + If *`condition`* evaluates to `false`, replacement occurs, using the value of the `replace` item.

  To unconditionally replace a field, specify the condition like this:

  ```
  "print": false
  ```
* `replace`: The replacement value to use when the `print` condition evaluates to `false`. Specify *`replacement_value`* using a `function` item.

For example, this filter definition applies to all events in the `general` class, replacing the statement literal text with its digest:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "general",
      "print": {
        "field": {
          "name": "general_query.str",
          "print": false,
          "replace": {
            "function": {
              "name": "query_digest"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The preceding filter uses this `print` item to unconditionally replace the statement literal text contained in `general_query.str` by its digest value:

```
"print": {
  "field": {
    "name": "general_query.str",
    "print": false,
    "replace": {
      "function": {
        "name": "query_digest"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

`print` items can be written different ways to implement different replacement strategies. The `replace` item just shown specifies the replacement text using this `function` construct to return a string representing the current statement digest:

```
"function": {
  "name": "query_digest"
}
```

The `query_digest` function can also be used in another way, as a comparator that returns a Boolean, which enables its use in the `print` condition. To do this, provide an argument that specifies a comparison statement digest:

```
"function": {
  "name": "query_digest",
  "args": "digest"
}
```

In this case, `query_digest` returns `true` or `false` depending on whether the current statement digest is the same as the comparison digest. Using `query_digest` this way enables filter definitions to detect statements that match particular digests. The condition in the following construct is true only for statements that have a digest equal to `SELECT ?`, thus effecting replacement only for statements that do not match the digest:

```
"print": {
  "field": {
    "name": "general_query.str",
    "print": {
      "function": {
        "name": "query_digest",
        "args": "SELECT ?"
      }
    },
    "replace": {
      "function": {
        "name": "query_digest"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To perform replacement only for statements that do match the digest, use `not` to invert the condition:

```
"print": {
  "field": {
    "name": "general_query.str",
    "print": {
      "not": {
        "function": {
          "name": "query_digest",
          "args": "SELECT ?"
        }
      }
    },
    "replace": {
      "function": {
        "name": "query_digest"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Suppose that you want the audit log to contain only statement digests and not literal statements. To achieve this, you must perform replacement on all events that contain statement text; that is, events in the `general` and `table_access` classes. An earlier filter definition showed how to unconditionally replace statement text for `general` events. To do the same for `table_access` events, use a filter that is similar but changes the class from `general` to `table_access` and the field name from `general_query.str` to `query.str`:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "table_access",
      "print": {
        "field": {
          "name": "query.str",
          "print": false,
          "replace": {
            "function": {
              "name": "query_digest"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Combining the `general` and `table_access` filters results in a single filter that performs replacement for all statement text-containing events:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": [
      {
        "name": "general",
        "print": {
          "field": {
            "name": "general_query.str",
            "print": false,
            "replace": {
              "function": {
                "name": "query_digest"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "name": "table_access",
        "print": {
          "field": {
            "name": "query.str",
            "print": false,
            "replace": {
              "function": {
                "name": "query_digest"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

To perform replacement on only some events within a class, add items to the filter that indicate more specifically when replacement occurs. The following filter applies to events in the `table_access` class, but performs replacement only for `insert` and `update` events (leaving `read` and `delete` events unchanged):

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "table_access",
      "event": {
        "name": [
          "insert",
          "update"
        ],
        "print": {
          "field": {
            "name": "query.str",
            "print": false,
            "replace": {
              "function": {
                "name": "query_digest"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This filter performs replacement for `general` class events corresponding to the listed account-management statements (the effect being to hide credential and data values in the statements):

```
{
  "filter": {
    "class": {
      "name": "general",
      "event": {
        "name": "status",
        "print": {
          "field": {
            "name": "general_query.str",
            "print": false,
            "replace": {
              "function": {
                "name": "query_digest"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "log": {
          "or": [
            {
              "field": {
                "name": "general_sql_command.str",
                "value": "alter_user"
              }
            },
            {
              "field": {
                "name": "general_sql_command.str",
                "value": "alter_user_default_role"
              }
            },
            {
              "field": {
                "name": "general_sql_command.str",
                "value": "create_role"
              }
            },
            {
              "field": {
                "name": "general_sql_command.str",
                "value": "create_user"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

For information about the possible `general_sql_command.str` values, see Testing Event Field Values.

##### Replacing a User Filter

In some cases, the filter definition can be changed dynamically. To do this, define a `filter` configuration within an existing `filter`. For example:

```
{
  "filter": {
    "id": "main",
    "class": {
      "name": "table_access",
      "event": {
        "name": [ "update", "delete" ],
        "log": false,
        "filter": {
          "class": {
            "name": "general",
            "event" : { "name": "status",
                        "filter": { "ref": "main" } }
          },
          "activate": {
            "or": [
              { "field": { "name": "table_name.str", "value": "temp_1" } },
              { "field": { "name": "table_name.str", "value": "temp_2" } }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

A new filter is activated when the `activate` item within a subfilter evaluates to `true`. Using `activate` in a top-level `filter` is not permitted.

A new filter can be replaced with the original one by using a `ref` item inside the subfilter to refer to the original filter `id`.

The filter shown operates like this:

* The `main` filter waits for `table_access` events, either `update` or `delete`.
* If the `update` or `delete` `table_access` event occurs on the `temp_1` or `temp_2` table, the filter is replaced with the internal one (without an `id`, since there is no need to refer to it explicitly).
* If the end of the command is signalled (`general` / `status` event), an entry is written to the audit log file and the filter is replaced with the `main` filter.

The filter is useful to log statements that update or delete anything from the `temp_1` or `temp_2` tables, such as this one:

```
UPDATE temp_1, temp_3 SET temp_1.a=21, temp_3.a=23;
```

The statement generates multiple `table_access` events, but the audit log file contains only `general` / `status` entries.

::: info Note

Any `id` values used in the definition are evaluated with respect only to that definition. They have nothing to do with the value of the `audit_log_filter_id` system variable.

:::
