#### 27.3.10.4 Forecaster Class

* Forecaster Constructor
* Forecaster.train()")
* Forecaster.fit()")
* Forecaster.predict()")
* Forecaster.score()")
* Forecaster.unload()")

This class encapsulates the forecasting task as described in Generate Forecasts. `Forecaster` supports methods for loading, training, and unloading models, predicting labels, and related tasks.

Each instance of `Forecaster` has three accessible properties, listed here:

* `name` (`String`): The model name.

* `metadata` (`Object`): Model metadata stored in the model catalog. See Model Metadata.

* `trainOptions` (`Object`): The training options that were specified in the constructor when creating this instance.

##### Forecaster Constructor

You can obtain an instance of `Forecaster` by invoking its constructor, shown here:

**Signature**

* ``` new ml.Forecaster( String name[, Object trainOptions] )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`name`*
  (`String`): Unique identifier for this
  `Forecaster`.
* *`trainOptions`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Training options; these
  are the same as the training options used with
  `sys.ML_TRAIN`.

**Return type**

* An instance of `Forecaster`.

##### Forecaster.train()

Trains and loads a new forecast. This method acts as a wrapper
for both `sys.ML_TRAIN` and
`sys.ML_MODEL_LOAD`, but is
specific to MySQL HeatWave AutoML forecasting.

**Signature**

* ```
  Forecaster.train(
    Table trainData,
    String index,
    Array[String] endogenousVariables[,
    Array[String] exogenousVariables]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`trainData`* (`Table`): A `Table` containing a training dataset. The table must not take up more than 10 GB space, or hold more than 100 million rows or more than 1017 columns.

* *`index`* (`String`): Name of the target column containing ground truth values. This must not be a `TEXT` column.

* *`endogenousVariables`* (`Array[String]`): The name or names of the column or columns to be forecast.

* *`exogenousVariables`* (`Array[String]`): The name or names of the column or columns of independent, predictive variables, and have not been forecast.

**Return type**

* Does not return a value. After invoking this method, you can observe its effects by selecting from the `MODEL_CATALOG` and `model_object_catalog` tables, as described in the examples provided in the MySQL HeatWave documentation.

##### Forecaster.fit()

An alias for `train()`"), and identical to it in all respects save the method name. See Forecaster.train()"), for more information.

##### Forecaster.predict()

This method predicts labels, and has two variants, one of which predicts labels from data found in the indicated table and stores them in an output table; this variant of `predict()` acts as a JavaScript wrapper for `sys.ML_PREDICT_TABLE`. The other variant of this method is a wrapper for `sys.ML_PREDICT_ROW`, and predicts a label for a single set of sample data and returns it to the caller. Both versions are shown here.

###### Version 1

Predicts labels, saving them in the output table specified by the user.

**Signature**

* ``` Forecaster.predict( Table testData, Table outputTable[, Object options] )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  (`Table`): Table
  containing test data.
* *`outputTable`*
  (`Table`): Table in which to store
  labels. The output written to the table uses the same
  content and format as that generated by the AutoML
  `ML_PREDICT_TABLE` routine.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Set of options in JSON
  format. For more information, see
  ML\_PREDICT\_TABLE.

**Return type**

* *None*. (Inserts into a target table.)

###### Version 2

Predicts a label for a single sample of data, and returns it.
See ML\_PREDICT\_ROW, for more
information about type and format of the value returned.

**Signature**

* ```
  String Forecaster.predict(
    Object sample
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`sample`* (`Object`): Sample data containing members that were used for training; extra members may be included but are ignored during prediction.

**Return type**

* `String`. See the documentation for `ML_PREDICT_ROW` for details.

##### Forecaster.score()

Returns the score for the test data in the indicated table and column, using the specified metric. For possible metric values and their effects, see Optimization and Scoring Metrics.

`score()` is a JavaScript wrapper for `sys.ML_SCORE`.

**Signature**

* ``` score( Table testData, String targetColumnName, String metric[, Object options] )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  (`Table`): Table which
  contains the test data. The table must contain the same
  columns as the training dataset.
* *`targetColumnName`*
  (`String`): Name of the target column
  containing ground truth values.
* *`metric`*
  (`String`): Name of the scoring metric.
  See Optimization and Scoring Metrics, for
  information about metrics which can be used for MySQL HeatWave AutoML
  forecasting.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): A set of options in JSON
  key-value format. For more information, see
  ML\_SCORE.

**Return type**

* `Number`.

##### Forecaster.unload()

Unloads the model. This method is a wrapper for
`sys.ML_MODEL_UNLOAD`; see the
description of this routine in the MySQL HeatWave AutoML documentation
for more information.

**Signature**

* ```
  Forecaster.unload()
  ```

**Arguments**

* *None*.

**Return type**

* *None*.
