### 25.5.3 ndbmtd — The NDB Cluster Data Node Daemon (Multi-Threaded)

**ndbmtd**") is a multithreaded version of **ndbd**, the process that is used to handle all the data in tables using the `NDBCLUSTER` storage engine. **ndbmtd**") is intended for use on host computers having multiple CPU cores. Except where otherwise noted, **ndbmtd**") functions in the same way as **ndbd**; therefore, in this section, we concentrate on the ways in which **ndbmtd**") differs from **ndbd**, and you should consult Section 25.5.1, “ndbd — The NDB Cluster Data Node Daemon”, for additional information about running NDB Cluster data nodes that apply to both the single-threaded and multithreaded versions of the data node process.

Command-line options and configuration parameters used with **ndbd** also apply to **ndbmtd**"). For more information about these options and parameters, see Section 25.5.1, “ndbd — The NDB Cluster Data Node Daemon”, and Section 25.4.3.6, “Defining NDB Cluster Data Nodes”, respectively.

**ndbmtd**") is also file system-compatible with **ndbd**. In other words, a data node running **ndbd** can be stopped, the binary replaced with **ndbmtd**"), and then restarted without any loss of data. (However, when doing this, you must make sure that `MaxNoOfExecutionThreads` is set to an appropriate value before restarting the node if you wish for **ndbmtd**") to run in multithreaded fashion.) Similarly, an **ndbmtd**") binary can be replaced with **ndbd** simply by stopping the node and then starting **ndbd** in place of the multithreaded binary. It is not necessary when switching between the two to start the data node binary using `--initial`.

Using **ndbmtd**") differs from using **ndbd** in two key respects:

1. Because **ndbmtd**") runs by default in single-threaded mode (that is, it behaves like **ndbd**), you must configure it to use multiple threads. This can be done by setting an appropriate value in the `config.ini` file for the `MaxNoOfExecutionThreads` configuration parameter or the `ThreadConfig` configuration parameter. Using `MaxNoOfExecutionThreads` is simpler, but `ThreadConfig` offers more flexibility. For more information about these configuration parameters and their use, see Multi-Threading Configuration Parameters (ndbmtd)").

2. Trace files are generated by critical errors in **ndbmtd**") processes in a somewhat different fashion from how these are generated by **ndbd** failures. These differences are discussed in more detail in the next few paragraphs.

Like **ndbd**, **ndbmtd**") generates a set of log files which are placed in the directory specified by `DataDir` in the `config.ini` configuration file. Except for trace files, these are generated in the same way and have the same names as those generated by **ndbd**.

In the event of a critical error, **ndbmtd**") generates trace files describing what happened just prior to the error' occurrence. These files, which can be found in the data node's `DataDir`, are useful for analysis of problems by the NDB Cluster Development and Support teams. One trace file is generated for each **ndbmtd**") thread. The names of these files have the following pattern:

```
ndb_node_id_trace.log.trace_id_tthread_id,
```

In this pattern, *`node_id`* stands for the data node's unique node ID in the cluster, *`trace_id`* is a trace sequence number, and *`thread_id`* is the thread ID. For example, in the event of the failure of an **ndbmtd**") process running as an NDB Cluster data node having the node ID 3 and with `MaxNoOfExecutionThreads` equal to 4, four trace files are generated in the data node's data directory. If the is the first time this node has failed, then these files are named `ndb_3_trace.log.1_t1`, `ndb_3_trace.log.1_t2`, `ndb_3_trace.log.1_t3`, and `ndb_3_trace.log.1_t4`. Internally, these trace files follow the same format as **ndbd** trace files.

The **ndbd** exit codes and messages that are generated when a data node process shuts down prematurely are also used by **ndbmtd**"). See Data Node Error Messages, for a listing of these.

Note

It is possible to use **ndbd** and **ndbmtd**") concurrently on different data nodes in the same NDB Cluster. However, such configurations have not been tested extensively; thus, we cannot recommend doing so in a production setting at this time.
