#### 27.3.10.2 Classifier Class

* [Classifier Constructor](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-constructor "Classifier Constructor")
* [Classifier.train()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-train "Classifier.train()")
* [Classifier.fit()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-fit "Classifier.fit()")
* [Classifier.predict()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-predict "Classifier.predict()")
* [Classifier.predictProba()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-predictproba "Classifier.predictProba()")
* [Classifier.score()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-score "Classifier.score()")
* [Classifier.explain()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-explain "Classifier.explain()")
* [Classifier.getExplainer()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-getexplainer "Classifier.getExplainer()")
* [Classifier.unload()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-unload "Classifier.unload()")

This class encapsulates the classification task as described in
[Train a Model](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-training.html).
`Classifier` supports methods for loading,
training, and unloading models, predicting labels, calculating
probabilities, producing explainers, and related tasks.

An instance of `Classifier` has three
accessible properties, listed here:

* `name` (`String`): The
  model name.

* `metadata` (`Object`):
  Model metadata stored in the model catalog. See
  [Model Metadata](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-metadata.html).

* `trainOptions` (`Object`):
  The training options specified in the constructor.

##### Classifier Constructor

You can obtain an instance of `Classifier` by
invoking its constructor, shown here:

**Signature**

* ```
  new ml.Classifier(
    String name[,
    Object trainOptions]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`name`*
  (`String`): Unique identifier for this
  `Classifier`.
* *`trainOptions`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Training options; these
  are the same as the training options used with
  [`sys.ML_TRAIN`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-train.html).

**Return type**

* An instance of `Classifier`.

It is also possible to obtain a
[`Classifier`](srjsapi-classifier.html "27.3.10.2 Classifier Class") by invoking
[`ml.load()`](srjsapi-convenience-methods.html#srjsapi-ml-load "ml.load()"). See
[ml.load()](srjsapi-convenience-methods.html#srjsapi-ml-load "ml.load()"), for more information.

##### Classifier.train()

Trains and loads a new classifier. This method acts as a
wrapper for both [`sys.ML_TRAIN`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-train.html)
and [`sys.ML_MODEL_LOAD`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-load.html), but is
specific to the MySQL HeatWave AutoML classification task.

**Signature**

* ```
  Classifier.train(
    Table trainData,
    String targetColumnName
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`trainData`*
  (`Table`): A
  [`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object") containing a
  training dataset. The table must not take up more than 10
  GB space, or hold more than 100 million rows or more than
  1017 columns.

* *`targetColumnName`*
  (`String`): Name of the target column
  containing ground truth values. The type used for this
  column cannot be [`TEXT`](blob.html "13.3.4 The BLOB and TEXT Types").

**Return type**

* *None*.

##### Classifier.fit()

An alias for
[`train()`](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-train "Classifier.train()"), and
identical to it in all respects save the method name. See
[Classifier.train()](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-train "Classifier.train()"), for more
information.

##### Classifier.predict()

This method predicts labels; it has two variants, one of which
predicts labels from data found in the indicated table and
stores them in an output table; this is a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_PREDICT_TABLE`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-table.html). The other
variant of this method acts as a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_PREDICT_ROW`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html), and
predicts a label for a single set of sample data and returns
it to the caller. Both versions of
`predict()` are shown here.

###### Version 1

Predicts labels and saves them in the specified output table.

**Signature**

* ```
  Classifier.predict(
    Table testData,
    Table outputTable[,
    Object options]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  ([`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object")): Table
  containing test data.
* *`outputTable`*
  (`Table`): Table in which to store
  labels. The content and format of the output is the same
  as that generated by `ML_PREDICT_TABLE`.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Set of options in JSON
  format. See [ML\_PREDICT\_TABLE](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-table.html),
  for more information.

**Return type**

* *None*. (Inserts into
  *`outputTable`*; see
  [ML\_PREDICT\_ROW](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html).)

###### Version 2

Predicts a label for a single sample of data, and returns it.
See [ML\_PREDICT\_ROW](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html), for more
information.

**Signature**

* ```
  String Classifier.predict(
    Object sample
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`sample`*
  (`Object`): Sample data. This argument
  must contain members that were used for training; extra
  members may be included, but these are ignored during
  prediction.

**Return type**

* `String`. See the documentation for
  [`ML_PREDICT_ROW`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html) for more
  information.

##### Classifier.predictProba()

Obtains the probabilities for all classes of the passed sample
data. Like the single-argument version of
[`predict()`](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-predict "Classifier.predict()"), this
method is a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_PREDICT_ROW`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html), but unlike
`predict()`,
`predictProba()` returns the probabilities
only.

**Signature**

* ```
  Classifier.predict(
    Object sample
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`sample`*
  (`Object`): Sample data, in the form of a
  JSON object. As with the single-argument version of
  [`Classifier.predict()`](srjsapi-classifier.html#srjsapi-classifier-predict "Classifier.predict()"),
  this argument must contain members that were used for
  training; extra members may be included, but these are
  ignored during prediction.

**Return type**

* `Object`. The probabilities for the
  sample data, in JSON format.

##### Classifier.score()

Returns the score for the test data in the indicated table and
column. For possible metric values and their effects, see
[Optimization and Scoring Metrics](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-metrics.html).

This method serves as a JavaScript wrapper for
[`sys.ML_SCORE`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-score.html).

**Signature**

* ```
  score(
    Table testData,
    String targetColumnName,
    String metric[,
    Object options]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  ([`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object")): Table
  containing test data to be scored; this table must contain
  the same columns as the training dataset.

* *`targetColumnName`*
  (`String`): Name of the target column
  containing ground truth values.

* *`metric`*
  (`String`): Name of the scoring metric.
  See [Optimization and Scoring Metrics](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-metrics.html), for
  information about the metrics compatible with AutoML
  classification.

* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): A set of options in JSON
  format. See the description of
  [`ML_SCORE`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-score.html) for more
  information.

**Return type**

* `Number`.

##### Classifier.explain()

Given a [`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object") containing a
labeled, trained dataset and the name of a table column
containing ground truth values, this method returns the newly
trained explainer.

This method serves as a wrapper for the MySQL HeatWave AutoML
[`sys.ML_EXPLAIN`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-explain.html) routine; see the
description of that routine for further information.

**Signature**

* ```
  explain(
    Table data,
    String targetColumnName[,
    Object options]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`data`*
  ([`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object")): A table
  containing trained data.
* *`targetColumnName`*
  (`String`): The name of the column
  containing ground truth values.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): A set of optional
  parameters, in JSON format.

**Return type**

* *None*. Adds a model explainer to the
  model catalog; see [ML\_EXPLAIN](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-explain.html),
  for more information.

##### Classifier.getExplainer()

Returns an explainer for this classifier, if one exists.

**Signature**

* ```
  Object Classifier.getExplainer()
  ```

**Arguments**

* *None*.

**Return type**

* `Object`

##### Classifier.unload()

Unloads the model. This method is a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_MODEL_UNLOAD`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-unload.html).

**Signature**

* ```
  Classifier.unload()
  ```

**Arguments**

* *None*.

**Return type**

* `undefined`