#### 27.3.10.4 Forecaster Class

* [Forecaster Constructor](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-constructor "Forecaster Constructor")
* [Forecaster.train()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-train "Forecaster.train()")
* [Forecaster.fit()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-fit "Forecaster.fit()")
* [Forecaster.predict()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-predict "Forecaster.predict()")
* [Forecaster.score()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-score "Forecaster.score()")
* [Forecaster.unload()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-unload "Forecaster.unload()")

This class encapsulates the forecasting task as described in
[Generate Forecasts](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-forecasts.html).
`Forecaster` supports methods for loading,
training, and unloading models, predicting labels, and related
tasks.

Each instance of `Forecaster` has three
accessible properties, listed here:

* `name` (`String`): The
  model name.

* `metadata` (`Object`):
  Model metadata stored in the model catalog. See
  [Model Metadata](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-metadata.html).

* `trainOptions` (`Object`):
  The training options that were specified in the constructor
  when creating this instance.

##### Forecaster Constructor

You can obtain an instance of `Forecaster` by
invoking its constructor, shown here:

**Signature**

* ```
  new ml.Forecaster(
    String name[,
    Object trainOptions]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`name`*
  (`String`): Unique identifier for this
  `Forecaster`.
* *`trainOptions`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Training options; these
  are the same as the training options used with
  [`sys.ML_TRAIN`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-train.html).

**Return type**

* An instance of `Forecaster`.

##### Forecaster.train()

Trains and loads a new forecast. This method acts as a wrapper
for both [`sys.ML_TRAIN`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-train.html) and
[`sys.ML_MODEL_LOAD`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-load.html), but is
specific to MySQL HeatWave AutoML forecasting.

**Signature**

* ```
  Forecaster.train(
    Table trainData,
    String index,
    Array[String] endogenousVariables[,
    Array[String] exogenousVariables]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`trainData`*
  (`Table`): A
  [`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object") containing a
  training dataset. The table must not take up more than 10
  GB space, or hold more than 100 million rows or more than
  1017 columns.

* *`index`*
  (`String`): Name of the target column
  containing ground truth values. This must not be a
  [`TEXT`](blob.html "13.3.4 The BLOB and TEXT Types") column.

* *`endogenousVariables`*
  (`Array[String]`): The name or names of
  the column or columns to be forecast.

* *`exogenousVariables`*
  (`Array[String]`): The name or names of
  the column or columns of independent, predictive
  variables, and have not been forecast.

**Return type**

* Does not return a value. After invoking this method, you
  can observe its effects by selecting from the
  `MODEL_CATALOG` and
  `model_object_catalog` tables, as
  described in
  [the examples
  provided in the MySQL HeatWave documentation](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-train.html#mys-hwaml-ml-train-examples).

##### Forecaster.fit()

An alias for
[`train()`](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-train "Forecaster.train()"), and
identical to it in all respects save the method name. See
[Forecaster.train()](srjsapi-forecaster.html#srjsapi-forecaster-train "Forecaster.train()"), for more
information.

##### Forecaster.predict()

This method predicts labels, and has two variants, one of
which predicts labels from data found in the indicated table
and stores them in an output table; this variant of
`predict()` acts as a JavaScript wrapper for
[`sys.ML_PREDICT_TABLE`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-table.html). The other
variant of this method is a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_PREDICT_ROW`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html), and
predicts a label for a single set of sample data and returns
it to the caller. Both versions are shown here.

###### Version 1

Predicts labels, saving them in the output table specified by
the user.

**Signature**

* ```
  Forecaster.predict(
    Table testData,
    Table outputTable[,
    Object options]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  ([`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object")): Table
  containing test data.
* *`outputTable`*
  (`Table`): Table in which to store
  labels. The output written to the table uses the same
  content and format as that generated by the AutoML
  `ML_PREDICT_TABLE` routine.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): Set of options in JSON
  format. For more information, see
  [ML\_PREDICT\_TABLE](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-table.html).

**Return type**

* *None*. (Inserts into a target table.)

###### Version 2

Predicts a label for a single sample of data, and returns it.
See [ML\_PREDICT\_ROW](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html), for more
information about type and format of the value returned.

**Signature**

* ```
  String Forecaster.predict(
    Object sample
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`sample`*
  (`Object`): Sample data containing
  members that were used for training; extra members may be
  included but are ignored during prediction.

**Return type**

* `String`. See the documentation for
  [`ML_PREDICT_ROW`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-predict-row.html) for details.

##### Forecaster.score()

Returns the score for the test data in the indicated table and
column, using the specified metric. For possible metric values
and their effects, see [Optimization and Scoring Metrics](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-metrics.html).

`score()` is a JavaScript wrapper for
[`sys.ML_SCORE`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-score.html).

**Signature**

* ```
  score(
    Table testData,
    String targetColumnName,
    String metric[,
    Object options]
  )
  ```

**Arguments**

* *`testData`*
  ([`Table`](srjsapi-table.html "27.3.6.5 Table Object")): Table which
  contains the test data. The table must contain the same
  columns as the training dataset.
* *`targetColumnName`*
  (`String`): Name of the target column
  containing ground truth values.
* *`metric`*
  (`String`): Name of the scoring metric.
  See [Optimization and Scoring Metrics](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-metrics.html), for
  information about metrics which can be used for MySQL HeatWave AutoML
  forecasting.
* *`options`*
  (`Object`)
  (*optional*): A set of options in JSON
  key-value format. For more information, see
  [ML\_SCORE](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-score.html).

**Return type**

* `Number`.

##### Forecaster.unload()

Unloads the model. This method is a wrapper for
[`sys.ML_MODEL_UNLOAD`](/doc/heatwave/en/mys-hwaml-ml-model-unload.html); see the
description of this routine in the MySQL HeatWave AutoML documentation
for more information.

**Signature**

* ```
  Forecaster.unload()
  ```

**Arguments**

* *None*.

**Return type**

* *None*.