#### 22.3.3.2 Working with Collections

To work with the collections in a schema, use the `db` global object to access the current schema. In this example we are using the `world_x` schema imported previously, and the `countryinfo` collection. Therefore, the format of the operations you issue is `db.collection_name.operation`, where *`collection_name`* is the name of the collection which the operation is executed against. In the following examples, the operations are executed against the `countryinfo` collection.

##### Add a Document

Use the `add()` method to insert one document or a list of documents into an existing collection. Insert the following document into the `countryinfo` collection. As this is multi-line content, press **Enter** twice to insert the document.

```
mysql-js> db.countryinfo.add(
 {
    GNP: .6,
    IndepYear: 1967,
    Name: "Sealand",
    Code: "SEA",
    demographics: {
        LifeExpectancy: 79,
        Population: 27
    },
    geography: {
        Continent: "Europe",
        Region: "British Islands",
        SurfaceArea: 193
    },
    government: {
        GovernmentForm: "Monarchy",
        HeadOfState: "Michael Bates"
    }
  }
)
```

The method returns the status of the operation. You can verify the operation by searching for the document. For example:

```
mysql-js> db.countryinfo.find("Name = 'Sealand'")
{
    "GNP": 0.6,
    "_id": "00005e2ff4af00000000000000f4",
    "Name": "Sealand",
    "Code:": "SEA",
    "IndepYear": 1967,
    "geography": {
        "Region": "British Islands",
        "Continent": "Europe",
        "SurfaceArea": 193
    },
    "government": {
        "HeadOfState": "Michael Bates",
        "GovernmentForm": "Monarchy"
    },
    "demographics": {
        "Population": 27,
        "LifeExpectancy": 79
    }
}
```

Note that in addition to the fields specified when the document was added, there is one more field, the `_id`. Each document requires an identifier field called `_id`. The value of the `_id` field must be unique among all documents in the same collection. Document IDs are generated by the server, not the client, so MySQL Shell does not automatically set an `_id` value. MySQL sets an `_id` value if the document does not contain the `_id` field. For more information, see Understanding Document IDs.

##### Related Information

* See CollectionAddFunction for the full syntax definition.

* See Understanding Document IDs.
