### 28.4.14 The INFORMATION\_SCHEMA INNODB\_FT\_BEING\_DELETED Table

The `INNODB_FT_BEING_DELETED` table provides a snapshot of the `INNODB_FT_DELETED` table; it is used only during an `OPTIMIZE TABLE` maintenance operation. When `OPTIMIZE TABLE` is run, the `INNODB_FT_BEING_DELETED` table is emptied, and `DOC_ID` values are removed from the `INNODB_FT_DELETED` table. Because the contents of `INNODB_FT_BEING_DELETED` typically have a short lifetime, this table has limited utility for monitoring or debugging. For information about running `OPTIMIZE TABLE` on tables with `FULLTEXT` indexes, see Section 14.9.6, “Fine-Tuning MySQL Full-Text Search”.

This table is empty initially. Before querying it, set the value of the `innodb_ft_aux_table` system variable to the name (including the database name) of the table that contains the `FULLTEXT` index (for example, `test/articles`). The output appears similar to the example provided for the `INNODB_FT_DELETED` table.

For related usage information and examples, see Section 17.15.4, “InnoDB INFORMATION\_SCHEMA FULLTEXT Index Tables”.

The `INNODB_FT_BEING_DELETED` table has these columns:

* `DOC_ID`

  The document ID of the row that is in the process of being deleted. This value might reflect the value of an ID column that you defined for the underlying table, or it can be a sequence value generated by `InnoDB` when the table contains no suitable column. This value is used when you perform text searches, to skip rows in the `INNODB_FT_INDEX_TABLE` table before data for deleted rows is physically removed from the `FULLTEXT` index by an `OPTIMIZE TABLE` statement. For more information, see Optimizing InnoDB Full-Text Indexes.

#### Notes

* Use the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` `COLUMNS` table or the `SHOW COLUMNS` statement to view additional information about the columns of this table, including data types and default values.

* You must have the `PROCESS` privilege to query this table.

* For more information about `InnoDB` `FULLTEXT` search, see Section 17.6.2.4, “InnoDB Full-Text Indexes”, and Section 14.9, “Full-Text Search Functions”.
